Chapter 9
第九章


Boxer’s split hoof was a long time in healing.
拳击手裂开的蹄子过了好长一段时间才复原。


They had started the rebuilding of the windmill the day after the victory celebrations were ended.
动物们在庆祝活动后便着手重建风车。


Boxer refused to take even a day off work, and made it a point of honour not to let it be seen that he was in pain.
拳击手连一天假都不肯放，忍着痛不让其他动物发现，并以此为荣。


In the evenings he would admit privately to Clover that the hoof troubled him a great deal.
只有在夜里，他才会私下向幸运草坦承受伤的蹄子造成他很大的麻烦。


Clover treated the hoof with poultices of herbs which she prepared by chewing them, and both she and Benjamin urged Boxer to work less hard.
幸运草总会将咀嚼过的药草泥敷在拳击手的蹄子上，也常和班杰明一起劝拳击手别那么拚命。


“A horse’s lungs do not last for ever,” she said to him.
她对他说：“马的肺不可能永远不出问题。”


But Boxer would not listen.
但拳击手就是不听。


He had, he said, only one real ambition left — to see the windmill well under way before he reached the age for retirement.
总说他现在只有一个目标，便是在退休之前看到风车顺利运作。


At the beginning, when the laws of Animal Farm were first formulated, the retiring age had been fixed for horses and pigs at twelve, for cows at fourteen, for dogs at nine, for sheep at seven, and for hens and geese at five.
动物农庄的律法刚制订时，马和猪的退休年龄为十二岁、牛十四岁、狗九岁、羊七岁、母鸡和鹅五岁。


Liberal old-age pensions had been agreed upon.
而且还慷慨地规定要发老年津贴给退休动物。


As yet no animal had actually retired on pension, but of late the subject had been discussed more and more.
然而，至今还没有动物领津贴退休，这个话题最近也愈炒愈热。


Now that the small field beyond the orchard had been set aside for barley, it was rumoured that a corner of the large pasture was to be fenced off and turned into a grazing-ground for superannuated animals.
果园边的小牧场现在被拿来种大麦，所以有传言说，大牧场一隅将会以栅栏圈起来，改成退休动物养老吃草的地方。


For a horse, it was said, the pension would be five pounds of corn a day and, in winter, fifteen pounds of hay, with a carrot or possibly an apple on public holidays.
传言还说马的津贴是每日五磅谷物，冬天则为十五磅干草，法定假日有红萝卜或苹果吃。


Boxer’s twelfth birthday was due in the late summer of the following year.
来年夏末，拳击手就要过十二岁生日了。


Meanwhile life was hard.
这段时间里，动物们的生活十分艰苦。


The winter was as cold as the last one had been, and food was even shorter.
冬天像去年一样寒冷，粮食却更短缺。


Once again all rations were reduced, except those of the pigs and the dogs.
因而除了猪和狗以外，其他动物的食物配给再度缩水了。


A too rigid equality in rations, Squealer explained, would have been contrary to the principles of Animalism.
尖叫者解释说，太过强调配给平等有违动物主义原则。


In any case he had no difficulty in proving to the other animals that they were NOT in reality short of food, whatever the appearances might be.
不管情势如何变化，尖叫者总能轻易向其他动物证明食物实际上并没有短缺。


For the time being, certainly, it had been found necessary to make a readjustment of rations (Squealer always spoke of it as a “readjustment,” never as a “reduction”), but in comparison with the days of Jones, the improvement was enormous.
现在这种时候，配给是需要调整一下（“调整”是尖叫者惯用的字眼，他从不说“短缺”），但和琼斯时代比起来还是好很多。


Reading out the figures in a shrill, rapid voice, he proved to them in detail that they had more oats, more hay, more turnips than they had had in Jones’s day, that they worked shorter hours, that their drinking water was of better quality, that they lived longer, that a larger proportion of their young ones survived infancy, and that they had more straw in their stalls and suffered less from fleas.
尖叫者以刺耳又急促的声音念出数据，仔细地向动物们证明，与琼斯时代相较，目前贮藏的燕麦、干草和萝卜更为可观、工时较短、饮用水较为纯净、动物寿命更长、幼年动物存活率提升、厩棚内有更多稻草且跳蚤减少了。


The animals believed every word of it.
动物们全都信以为真。


Truth to tell, Jones and all he stood for had almost faded out of their memories.
老实说，动物们已经几乎记不得琼斯和他那个时代的事情了。


They knew that life nowadays was harsh and bare, that they were often hungry and often cold, and that they were usually working when they were not asleep.
他们只知道目前的生活很艰苦，常常得挨饿受冻，而且睁开眼就是工作。


But doubtless it had been worse in the old days.
不过，无庸置疑地，过去的日子比现在还惨。


They were glad to believe so.
他们很乐意这么想。


Besides, in those days they had been slaves and now they were free, and that made all the difference, as Squealer did not fail to point out.
尖叫者还不忘补上，以前大家是奴隶，现在则是自由之身，这可说天差地远。


There were many more mouths to feed now.
现在，农庄内有更多张嘴吃饭。


In the autumn the four sows had all littered about simultaneously, producing thirty-one young pigs between them.
秋天时，四头母猪几乎同时分娩，总共产下三十一头杂色小猪。


The young pigs were piebald, and as Napoleon was the only boar on the farm, it was possible to guess at their parentage.
农庄里的种猪只有拿破仑，因此他们的父母是谁并不难猜。


It was announced that later, when bricks and timber had been purchased, a schoolroom would be built in the farmhouse garden.
猪宣布，等购得砖块和木材后，农舍花园里将会盖一间教室。


For the time being, the young pigs were given their instruction by Napoleon himself in the farmhouse kitchen.
在那之前，拿破仑会在农舍厨房内亲自教导这些小猪。


They took their exercise in the garden, and were discouraged from playing with the other young animals.
小猪们在花园里运动，禁止和其他幼年动物玩耍。


About this time, too, it was laid down as a rule that when a pig and any other animal met on the path, the other animal must stand aside: and also that all pigs, of whatever degree, were to have the privilege of wearing green ribbons on their tails on Sundays.
也差不多这个时候，农庄内又多了一条规定，当一只猪和其他动物在路上相遇时，其他动物必须站到一边去。


The farm had had a fairly successful year, but was still short of money.
此外，每个星期天，所有猪只不论身分都可以系绿色缎带在尾巴上，这是他们的特权。


There were the bricks, sand, and lime for the schoolroom to be purchased, and it would also be necessary to begin saving up again for the machinery for the windmill.
农庄这一年万事顺利，但是财源依旧短缺，现在等着要买砖块、泥沙和石灰来盖教室，也得为风车的机械装置再次存钱。


Then there were lamp oil and candles for the house, sugar for Napoleon’s own table (he forbade this to the other pigs, on the ground that it made them fat), and all the usual replacements such as tools, nails, string, coal, wire, scrap-iron, and dog biscuits.
还要添购农舍照明用的灯油及蜡烛、拿破仑专用餐桌的糖（他禁止其他猪只吃糖，理由是他们会愈来愈胖）以及所有日常消耗品，如各种工具、钉子、绳子、煤炭、铁丝、废铁和狗饼干。


A stump of hay and part of the potato crop were sold off, and the contract for eggs was increased to six hundred a week, so that that year the hens barely hatched enough chicks to keep their numbers at the same level.
目前，剩下的干草还有部分马铃薯都卖掉了，卖蛋合约做了修改，每周交货数量增加到六百颗蛋，结果母鸡那年孵化的小鸡不够，造成鸡只总数下降。


Rations, reduced in December, were reduced again in February, and lanterns in the stalls were forbidden to save oil.
十二月才减少过一次的食物配给二月又缩水了，而且为了节省灯油，厩棚禁止点灯。


But the pigs seemed comfortable enough, and in fact were putting on weight if anything.
不过，猪只过得似乎还满惬意的，实际上甚至都胖了几公斤。


One afternoon in late February a warm, rich, appetising scent, such as the animals had never smelt before, wafted itself across the yard from the little brew-house, which had been disused in Jones’s time, and which stood beyond the kitchen.
二月底某天下午，空气中飘来一阵新鲜、浓郁、让人垂涎三尺的香味，这股动物们以前从来没有闻过的气息从小酿造坊那儿传遍整个院子。小酿造坊在厨房旁边，琼斯时代就已经废弃不用。


Someone said it was the smell of cooking barley.
有动物说那闻起来像煮大麦的味道。


The animals sniffed the air hungrily and wondered whether a warm mash was being prepared for their supper.
动物们饥肠辘辘地嗅着，心里猜测晚餐不知道有没有暖呼呼的麦糊吃。


But no warm mash appeared, and on the following Sunday it was announced that from now onwards all barley would be reserved for the pigs.
但是并没有什么暖呼呼的麦糊。到了接下来的那个星期天，猪宣布今后所有大麦均归他们食用。


The field beyond the orchard had already been sown with barley.


And the news soon leaked out that every pig was now receiving a ration of a pint of beer daily, with half a gallon for Napoleon himself, which was always served to him in the Crown Derby soup tureen.
没多久，有消息走漏，说每只猪每天有一品脱的啤酒配给，拿破仑自己则享有半加仑，而且他的啤酒都用皇冠德比高级汤碗盛装。


But if there were hardships to be borne, they were partly offset by the fact that life nowadays had a greater dignity than it had had before.
然而，举凡碰到什么困难，动物们多少会安慰自己现在的生活比以前更有尊严。


There were more songs, more speeches, more processions.
农庄内有愈来愈多的歌曲、演讲和游行。



Napoleon had commanded that once a week there should be held something called a Spontaneous Demonstration, the object of which was to celebrate the struggles and triumphs of Animal Farm.
拿破仑下令每周举办一次名叫“自发表演”的活动，目的在于赞扬动物农庄的奋斗与胜利。


At the appointed time the animals would leave their work and march round the precincts of the farm in military formation, with the pigs leading, then the horses, then the cows, then the sheep, and then the poultry.
指定的时间一到，动物们便得离开工作岗位，行军般绕农庄一圈。


The dogs flanked the procession and at the head of all marched Napoleon’s black cockerel.
游行队伍由猪带头，接着依序是马、牛、羊、家禽，狗走在队伍两旁，最前面则是拿破仑的黑公鸡。


Boxer and Clover always carried between them a green banner marked with the hoof and the horn and the caption, “Long live Comrade Napoleon!”
拳击手及幸运草总一起咬着一块绿色布条，上面画有蹄子和角以及“拿破仑同志万岁！”几个大字。


Afterwards there were recitations of poems composed in Napoleon’s honour, and a speech by Squealer giving particulars of the latest increases in the production of foodstuffs, and on occasion a shot was fired from the gun.
诗作朗诵会在游行后举办，所有作品的主题都在歌颂拿破仑。接着则是尖叫者演讲时间，通常在细数最近食物产量的增加情形。除此之外，时而会有鸣枪仪式。


The sheep were the greatest devotees of the Spontaneous Demonstration, and if anyone complained (as a few animals sometimes did, when no pigs or dogs were near) that they wasted time and meant a lot of standing about in the cold, the sheep were sure to silence him with a tremendous bleating of “Four legs good, two legs bad!”
绵羊是自发表演最热情的参与者，如果有动物犯嘀咕（有些动物偶尔会趁猪或狗不在身边的时候发些牢骚），觉得这是在浪费时间，还得在寒冷的天气中站那么久，羊群便会放声高喊“四足善，双足恶”来让抱怨的动物闭嘴。


But by and large the animals enjoyed these celebrations.
不过，动物们大致上还满喜欢这些庆祝活动的。


They found it comforting to be reminded that, after all, they were truly their own masters and that the work they did was for their own benefit.
那让他们体会到自己是真正的主人、所做的工作都是为了自己，进而从中获得慰藉。


So that, what with the songs, the processions, Squealer’s lists of figures, the thunder of the gun, the crowing of the cockerel, and the fluttering of the flag, they were able to forget that their bellies were empty, at least part of the time.
在歌曲、游行、尖叫者的一长串数据、鸣枪声、鸡啼声和飘扬的旗帜中，动物们忘记饥饿之苦，或至少暂时将之抛到脑后。


In April, Animal Farm was proclaimed a Republic, and it became necessary to elect a President.
四月时分，动物农庄宣布组成共和国，需要选出一位总统。


There was only one candidate, Napoleon, who was elected unanimously.
而候选人只有拿破仑一个，所以全体赞成通过。


On the same day it was given out that fresh documents had been discovered which revealed further details about Snowball’s complicity with Jones.
同一天，有消息说找到了新的文件证据，能够进一步证明雪球和琼斯狼狈为奸。


It now appeared that Snowball had not, as the animals had previously imagined, merely attempted to lose the Battle of the Cowshed by means of a stratagem, but had been openly fighting on Jones’s side.
而且现在看来雪球不只如大家所想的打算耍诡计输掉牛棚之战，他还公开帮琼斯做事。


In fact, it was he who had actually been the leader of the human forces, and had charged into battle with the words “Long live Humanity!” on his lips.
实际上，他才是人类的首领。冲进战场时，他嘴里喊的是“人类万岁”。


The wounds on Snowball’s back, which a few of the animals still remembered to have seen, had been inflicted by Napoleon’s teeth.
有些动物还记得看过雪球背上的伤，其实那是拿破仑咬的。


In the middle of the summer Moses the raven suddenly reappeared on the farm, after an absence of several years.
夏天过完一半，消失好几年的乌鸦摩西突然回到农庄。


He was quite unchanged, still did no work, and talked in the same strain as ever about Sugarcandy Mountain.
他没什么改变，还是不工作，整天讲糖果山之类的事情。


He would perch on a stump, flap his black wings, and talk by the hour to anyone who would listen.
摩西常常站在树枝上，拍动黑色翅膀，一小时、两小时地向有兴趣的动物们叙述。


“Up there, comrades,” he would say solemnly, pointing to the sky with his large beak— “up there, just on the other side of that dark cloud that you can see — there it lies, Sugarcandy Mountain, that happy country where we poor animals shall rest for ever from our labours!”
“同志，在那上面，”他的黑色大鸟嘴指着天空，语气严肃地说：“在那上面，你眼前那片乌云的另一端，糖果山就在那里，那是欢乐之地，我们这些可怜的动物到那里就不需再工作，永远得歇息！”


He even claimed to have been there on one of his higher flights, and to have seen the everlasting fields of clover and the linseed cake and lump sugar growing on the hedges.
摩西甚至声称他偶尔飞得很高，有一次曾飞到那里去。他在山上看到绵延不绝的苜蓿，还有亚麻仁饼和糖块长在篱笆上。


Many of the animals believed him.
很多动物相信摩西说的话。


Their lives now, they reasoned, were hungry and laborious; was it not right and just that a better world should exist somewhere else?
他们的理由是现在的生活又饿又累，世界上有个更美好的地方不是天经地义的事情吗？


A thing that was difficult to determine was the attitude of the pigs towards Moses.
不过，猪对摩西的态度暧昧不明。


They all declared contemptuously that his stories about Sugarcandy Mountain were lies, and yet they allowed him to remain on the farm, not working, with an allowance of a gill of beer a day.
他们轻蔑地表示糖果山是编造出来的，可是却又让摩西继续待在农庄里，不需工作，每天还有四分之一品脱的啤酒喝。


After his hoof had healed up, Boxer worked harder than ever.
拳击手蹄伤复原后，工作比以往更加卖力。


Indeed, all the animals worked like slaves that year.
说实话，动物们那一年都如奴隶般工作。


Apart from the regular work of the farm, and the rebuilding of the windmill, there was the schoolhouse for the young pigs, which was started in March.
除了固定要处理的农事和重建风车之外，三月的时候又开始忙着为小猪盖教室。


Sometimes the long hours on insufficient food were hard to bear, but Boxer never faltered.
做得多吃得少有时总让动物难以忍受，但拳击手始终如一。


In nothing that he said or did was there any sign that his strength was not what it had been.
他所说的每句话、所做的每件事都显示自己的气力一如过往。


It was only his appearance that was a little altered; his hide was less shiny than it had used to be, and his great haunches seemed to have shrunken.
只是他的外表有了些许不同，皮毛变得较没光泽，原本粗壮的后腿也消瘦了。


The others said, “Boxer will pick up when the spring grass comes on”; but the spring came and Boxer grew no fatter.
其他动物总说：“等地上长出春草，拳击手就会胖回来了。”然而，春草是长出来了，拳击手却没有胖回来。


Sometimes on the slope leading to the top of the quarry, when he braced his muscles against the weight of some vast boulder, it seemed that nothing kept him on his feet except the will to continue.
在将石头往矿场斜坡上拉的过程中，当拳击手绷紧肌肉稳住又重又大的石块时，他偶尔会觉得自己之所以能撑下去完全是靠意志力。


At such times his lips were seen to form the words, “I will work harder”; he had no voice left.
每当这种时候，动物们就会看见拳击手嘴里默念着：“我要更努力。”


Once again Clover and Benjamin warned him to take care of his health, but Boxer paid no attention.
幸运草和班杰明再次提醒拳击手要注意健康，但他就是不听。


His twelfth birthday was approaching.
他的十二岁生日即将来临。


He did not care what happened so long as a good store of stone was accumulated before he went on pension.
他现在什么都不在乎，只想在领津贴退休之前收集好足够的石块。


Late one evening in the summer, a sudden rumour ran round the farm that something had happened to Boxer.
某个夏夜，太阳才刚下山不久，一个消息在农庄内传开，说拳击手出事了。


He had gone out alone to drag a load of stone down to the windmill.
当时他独自出门拉了一车石头到风车工地去。


And sure enough, the rumour was true.
传言是真的。


A few minutes later two pigeons came racing in with the news; “Boxer has fallen! He is lying on his side and can’t get up!”
几分钟后，两只鸽子急急忙忙飞回来，说：“拳击手倒下去了！他侧身倒在地上，站不起来！”


About half the animals on the farm rushed out to the knoll where the windmill stood.
农庄内半数动物皆往风车矗立的山丘冲去，拳击手就倒在那里，在推车的两根把手之间。


There lay Boxer, between the shafts of the cart, his neck stretched out, unable even to raise his head.
他脖子伸得长长的，头擡不起来，眼神呆滞、全身冒汗，嘴里还流出细细血丝。


His eyes were glazed, his sides matted with sweat.


A thin stream of blood had trickled out of his mouth.


Clover dropped to her knees at his side.
幸运草见状，屈膝跪在拳击手身旁。


“Boxer!” she cried, “how are you?”
“拳击手！”幸运草喊道：“你还好吗？”


“It is my lung,” said Boxer in a weak voice.
“我的肺出问题了，”拳击手有气无力地说。


“It does not matter.
“但是没关系。


I think you will be able to finish the windmill without me.
我相信你们没有我也能盖好风车。


There is a pretty good store of stone accumulated.
现在，石头已经收集得够多了。


I had only another month to go in any case.
而我大概只剩一个月能干活。


To tell you the truth, I had been looking forward to my retirement.
老实说，我一直很期待退休。


And perhaps, as Benjamin is growing old too, they will let him retire at the same time and be a companion to me.”
而且，班杰明也愈来愈老了，或许他们会同意让他同时退休，好跟我作伴。”


“We must get help at once,” said Clover.
“我们得马上求救，”幸运草说。


“Run, somebody, and tell Squealer what has happened.”
“谁赶快去跟尖叫者说这件事情？”


All the other animals immediately raced back to the farmhouse to give Squealer the news.
其他动物全跑回农舍向尖叫者报告。


Only Clover remained, and Benjamin who lay down at Boxer’s side, and, without speaking, kept the flies off him with his long tail.
只剩下幸运草与班杰明陪着拳击手，班杰明不发一语地趴在他身边，甩着长长的尾巴替他赶苍蝇。


After about a quarter of an hour Squealer appeared, full of sympathy and concern.
约莫过了十五分钟，尖叫者满脸同情与关心地来到现场。


He said that Comrade Napoleon had learned with the very deepest distress of this misfortune to one of the most loyal workers on the farm, and was already making arrangements to send Boxer to be treated in the hospital at Willingdon.
他表示拿破仑同志已经听说这项万分悲惨的消息，知道农庄最忠诚工作者的不幸遭遇，且已安排好要将拳击手送到威灵顿的医院去。


The animals felt a little uneasy at this.
大家对此觉得有些不妥。


Except for Mollie and Snowball, no other animal had ever left the farm, and they did not like to think of their sick comrade in the hands of human beings.
除了莫莉和雪球以外，其他动物没有离开过农庄，也不希望生病的同志接受人类治疗。


However, Squealer easily convinced them that the veterinary surgeon in Willingdon could treat Boxer’s case more satisfactorily than could be done on the farm.
然而，尖叫者轻易地说服了他们，他说威灵顿的兽医比农庄动物更能诊治拳击手。


And about half an hour later, when Boxer had somewhat recovered, he was with difficulty got on to his feet, and managed to limp back to his stall, where Clover and Benjamin had prepared a good bed of straw for him.
大约半小时后，拳击手比较好过一点，便吃力地站起身，一拐一拐地往马厩走。在那里，幸运草与班杰明已经为他铺好一层舒服的稻草。


For the next two days Boxer remained in his stall.
接下来两天，拳击手都待在自己的马厩里。


The pigs had sent out a large bottle of pink medicine which they had found in the medicine chest in the bathroom, and Clover administered it to Boxer twice a day after meals.
猪从浴室药柜中找到一大罐粉红色药水，由幸运草负责每天两餐餐后喂拳击手喝。


In the evenings she lay in his stall and talked to him, while Benjamin kept the flies off him.
在夜里，幸运草待在拳击手的马厩内和他聊天。班杰明则在一旁帮他赶苍蝇。

Boxer professed not to be sorry for what had happened.
拳击手跟他们说自己不觉得难过。


If he made a good recovery, he might expect to live another three years, and he looked forward to the peaceful days that he would spend in the corner of the big pasture.
如果复原良好，那还能多活三年呢！


It would be the first time that he had had leisure to study and improve his mind.
他很期待生活于大牧场一隅的平静时光，那将是他有生以来第一次有空好好学习以增长智慧。


He intended, he said, to devote the rest of his life to learning the remaining twenty-two letters of the alphabet.
他表示打算用剩余的时光来学习剩下的二十二个字母。


However, Benjamin and Clover could only be with Boxer after working hours, and it was in the middle of the day when the van came to take him away.
不过，班杰明和幸运草只有在工作结束以后才能陪拳击手，而他就在某天中午被有篷大马车运走了。


The animals were all at work weeding turnips under the supervision of a pig, when they were astonished to see Benjamin come galloping from the direction of the farm buildings, braying at the top of his voice.
当时，动物们在猪监督下于萝卜田里除草。突然间，班杰明从仓舍那里跑来，并且放声大叫，让大家吓了一跳。


It was the first time that they had ever seen Benjamin excited — indeed, it was the first time that anyone had ever seen him gallop.
这是他们第一次看到班杰明这么激动。实际上，这是大家第一次看到他跑起来。


“Quick, quick!” he shouted. “Come at once! They’re taking Boxer away!”
“快点！快点！”他嚷嚷着：“赶快过来！他们要把拳击手带走了！”



Without waiting for orders from the pig, the animals broke off work and raced back to the farm buildings.
动物们不等猪下令，马上丢下工作往仓舍跑。


Sure enough, there in the yard was a large closed van, drawn by two horses, with lettering on its side and a sly-looking man in a low-crowned bowler hat sitting on the driver’s seat.
想当然耳，院子里有一辆车门紧闭的马车，前头有两匹马拉着，车身还刻了些字，车夫座坐了一名面容狡狯的男人，头上的圆顶礼帽帽沿压得低低的。


And Boxer’s stall was empty.
拳击手的马厩空空如也。


The animals crowded round the van.
大家挤向马车。


“Good-bye, Boxer!” they chorused, “good-bye!”
齐声喊道：“再见！拳击手，再见！”


“Fools! Fools!” shouted Benjamin, prancing round them and stamping the earth with his small hoofs.
“傻瓜！傻瓜！”班杰明大声叫道，他绕着动物们跳来蹬去，瘦小的蹄子不停跺着地面。


“Fools! Do you not see what is written on the side of that van?”
“傻瓜！你们没有看到马车那一边写了什么字吗？”


That gave the animals pause, and there was a hush.
这让大家停了下来，现场顿时一片静默。


Muriel began to spell out the words.
穆里儿慢慢地拼出车身上的字。


But Benjamin pushed her aside and in the midst of a deadly silence he read:
但班杰明将她推到旁边，在一片死寂中念道：


“‘Alfred Simmonds, Horse Slaughterer and Glue Boiler, Willingdon. Dealer in Hides and Bone-Meal. Kennels Supplied.’ Do you not understand what that means? They are taking Boxer to the knacker’s!”
“‘阿飞席蒙斯．威灵顿屠马商兼煮胶商．皮毛与骨粉贩售商．狗屋供应商’，你们不明白那是什么意思吗？他们要把拳击手送到屠马业者那里去！”


A cry of horror burst from all the animals.
所有动物吓得尖叫。


At this moment the man on the box whipped up his horses and the van moved out of the yard at a smart trot.
此时，车夫座上的男人抽打马匹，马车轻快地驶出院子。


All the animals followed, crying out at the tops of their voices.
动物们跟在后头，使尽全力大叫。


Clover forced her way to the front.
幸运草挤到前头。


The van began to gather speed.
车速度愈来愈快。

Clover tried to stir her stout limbs to a gallop, and achieved a canter.
幸运草试着要抬起肥胖的四肢加速奔跑，但速度仅仅差强人意。


“Boxer!” she cried. “Boxer! Boxer! Boxer!”
“拳击手！”她大喊：“拳击手！拳击手！拳击手！”


And just at this moment, as though he had heard the uproar outside, Boxer’s face, with the white stripe down his nose, appeared at the small window at the back of the van.
就在这个时候，拳击手仿佛听到外头的喧嚷，把那张白色条纹一直延伸到鼻头的脸凑近马车后头的小窗。


“Boxer!” cried Clover in a terrible voice. “Boxer! Get out! Get out quickly! They’re taking you to your death!”
“拳击手！”幸运草厉声叫道：“拳击手！出来！快出来！他们要把你送去屠宰场！”


All the animals took up the cry of “Get out, Boxer, get out!”
所有动物跟着喊：“出来，拳击手，出来！”


But the van was already gathering speed and drawing away from them.
但马车已经加速驶离，大家不确定拳击手是否听懂幸运草对他说的话。


It was uncertain whether Boxer had understood what Clover had said.
过没多久，他的脸消失在窗后。


But a moment later his face disappeared from the window and there was the sound of a tremendous drumming of hoofs inside the van.
接着，车内传来蹄子踹击的巨大声响。


He was trying to kick his way out.
拳击手试图要踹破车门。


The time had been when a few kicks from Boxer’s hoofs would have smashed the van to matchwood.
只差几下就能把车门踢成碎片了，可是，唉！


But alas! his strength had left him; and in a few moments the sound of drumming hoofs grew fainter and died away.
拳击手已经气力用尽，蹄子踹击声愈来愈弱，最后终于消失。


In desperation the animals began appealing to the two horses which drew the van to stop.
绝望之余，动物们不断恳求拉马车的那两匹马停下脚步。


“Comrades, comrades!” they shouted. “Don’t take your own brother to his death!”
他们叫道：“同志们！同志们！不要把你们的弟兄带去送死！”


But the stupid brutes, too ignorant to realise what was happening, merely set back their ears and quickened their pace.
但这两头笨马完全不知道发生什么事情，只管把耳朵贴紧头部并加快速度。


Boxer’s face did not reappear at the window.
拳击手的脸没有再次出现在窗户另一边，一切都太迟了，有动物想冲到前面去关上栅门，可是马车已然通过，迅速消失在路的那一头。


Too late, someone thought of racing ahead and shutting the five-barred gate; but in another moment the van was through it and rapidly disappearing down the road.


Boxer was never seen again.
从此，大家没有再见过拳击手。


Three days later it was announced that he had died in the hospital at Willingdon, in spite of receiving every attention a horse could have.
三天后，大家得知，拳击手在威灵顿的医院内接受各种适合马的治疗方式，但仍旧回天乏术。


Squealer came to announce the news to the others.
尖叫者向其他动物传达这则消息。


He had, he said, been present during Boxer’s last hours.
还表示自己陪拳击手走完最后几个小时。


“It was the most affecting sight I have ever seen!” said Squealer, lifting his trotter and wiping away a tear.
“那是我这辈子见过最感伤的一幕！”尖叫者一边举起蹄子拭泪一边说。


“I was at his bedside at the very last. And at the end, almost too weak to speak, he whispered in my ear that his sole sorrow was to have passed on before the windmill was finished. ‘Forward, comrades!’ he whispered. ‘Forward in the name of the Rebellion. Long live Animal Farm! Long live Comrade Napoleon! Napoleon is always right.’ Those were his very last words, comrades.”
“我一直到最后都待在他床边，几乎没有力气说话的拳击手在我耳边轻轻地说，他唯一的遗憾是没能在死前看到风车完工。他还细声喊着：‘同志们，前进！以抗争之名前进。动物农庄万岁！拿破仑同志万岁！拿破仑永远是对的。’同志们，这就是他最后的遗言。”



Here Squealer’s demeanour suddenly changed.
尖叫者态度突然改变。


He fell silent for a moment, and his little eyes darted suspicious glances from side to side before he proceeded.
先是沉默了一会儿，小小的眼睛满是猜疑地扫视在场动物，然后才又继续讲下去。


It had come to his knowledge, he said, that a foolish and wicked rumour had been circulated at the time of Boxer’s removal.
他表示，在拳击手被送走的时候，听说动物之间流传着一个愚蠢、缺德的谣言。


Some of the animals had noticed that the van which took Boxer away was marked “Horse Slaughterer,” and had actually jumped to the conclusion that Boxer was being sent to the knacker’s.
有些动物注意到，载走拳击手的马车上标有“屠马商”几个字，于是便下了个结论，说拳击手被送到屠马业者那里去了。


It was almost unbelievable, said Squealer, that any animal could be so stupid.
尖叫者说，有动物笨到这种地步实在让他不敢置信。


Surely, he cried indignantly, whisking his tail and skipping from side to side, surely they knew their beloved Leader, Comrade Napoleon, better than that?
他跳来蹦去、甩动尾巴愤慨地说，你们应该知道，亲爱的领袖拿破仑同志不会做这种事情，对吧？


But the explanation was really very simple.
事情其实非常单纯。


The van had previously been the property of the knacker, and had been bought by the veterinary surgeon, who had not yet painted the old name out.
那辆马车先前为屠马业者所有，之后由兽医买走，只是车身上的旧名字还没涂掉。


That was how the mistake had arisen.
这就是产生误会的原因。


The animals were enormously relieved to hear this.
一听完解释，动物们大为宽心。


And when Squealer went on to give further graphic details of Boxer’s death-bed, the admirable care he had received, and the expensive medicines for which Napoleon had paid without a thought as to the cost, their last doubts disappeared and the sorrow that they felt for their comrade’s death was tempered by the thought that at least he had died happy.
尖叫者进一步生动描述拳击手死前所躺的床、当时所接受的完善照护以及拿破仑不计价格所购买的昂贵药物，这让大家的疑虑一扫而空。至少，拳击手走得很愉快，想到这里，同志死去的哀伤不再那么强烈了。


Napoleon himself appeared at the meeting on the following Sunday morning and pronounced a short oration in Boxer’s honour.
拿破仑在接下来那个星期天的早晨聚会中现身，简短地发表了一段演说颂扬拳击手。


It had not been possible, he said, to bring back their lamented comrade’s remains for interment on the farm, but he had ordered a large wreath to be made from the laurels in the farmhouse garden and sent down to be placed on Boxer’s grave.
他说大家都很怀念这位同志，虽然没办法将他的遗体运回农庄安葬，但他已下令从农舍花园采摘月桂做成大花圈，送到拳击手坟上。


And in a few days’ time the pigs intended to hold a memorial banquet in Boxer’s honour.
此外，猪群还打算在几天后举办拳击手追悼宴。


Napoleon ended his speech with a reminder of Boxer’s two favourite maxims, “I will work harder” and “Comrade Napoleon is always right” — maxims, he said, which every animal would do well to adopt as his own.
演讲末尾，拿破仑重述了一次拳击手最爱的两句格言：“我要更努力”、“拿破仑同志永远是对的”，他表示所有动物都该谨记在心。


On the day appointed for the banquet, a grocer’s van drove up from Willingdon and delivered a large wooden crate at the farmhouse.
追悼宴当天，一辆从威灵顿来的食品商马车进入农庄，在农舍外搁下一只大木箱。


That night there was the sound of uproarious singing, which was followed by what sounded like a violent quarrel and ended at about eleven o’clock with a tremendous crash of glass.
当晚，农舍内传来喧闹的歌声，接着似乎是一阵剧烈争吵。十一点左右爆出了巨大的玻璃碎裂声，之后一切归于平静。


No one stirred in the farmhouse before noon on the following day, and the word went round that from somewhere or other the pigs had acquired the money to buy themselves another case of whisky.
农舍里的猪一直到隔天中午才醒来，有传言说猪不知道从哪筹到钱，买了一箱威士忌。


