Chapter 10
第十章


Years passed. The seasons came and went, the short animal lives fled by.
四季流转，数年经过，寿命较短的动物先后死去。



A time came when there was no one who remembered the old days before the Rebellion, except Clover, Benjamin, Moses the raven, and a number of the pigs.
如今，除了幸运草、班杰明、乌鸦摩西和一些猪，其他动物都不记得抗争以前的事情了。


Muriel was dead; Bluebell, Jessie, and Pincher were dead.
穆里儿已死，蓝铃、洁西与品契尔亦然。


Jones too was dead — he had died in an inebriates’ home in another part of the country.
就连琼斯也走了，他死在威灵顿其他地方，一个酒鬼家里。


Snowball was forgotten.
大家都把雪球忘了。


Boxer was forgotten, except by the few who had known him.
拳击手的事情也只剩下一小部分认识他的人记得。


Clover was an old stout mare now, stiff in the joints and with a tendency to rheumy eyes.
如今，幸运草是头年迈的肥胖母马，关节僵硬还经常流眼油。


She was two years past the retiring age, but in fact no animal had ever actually retired.
她的年纪已经超过退休年龄两年。


The talk of setting aside a corner of the pasture for superannuated animals had long since been dropped.
然而，没有动物真的退休了，以前大家都在讨论，大牧场一隅会独立出来为退休动物所用，但这已经好久没有动物提起。


Napoleon was now a mature boar of twenty-four stone.
拿破仑现在是头一百五十多公斤重的成年种猪。


Squealer was so fat that he could with difficulty see out of his eyes.
尖叫者则胖到很难睁开眼。


Only old Benjamin was much the same as ever, except for being a little greyer about the muzzle, and, since Boxer’s death, more morose and taciturn than ever.
只有老班杰明一如过往，差别仅在于嘴边的毛花白了些，自从拳击手死后，他更加孤僻寡言了。


There were many more creatures on the farm now, though the increase was not so great as had been expected in earlier years.
农庄的动物数量增加幅度虽然不如早年预期的高，但也相当可观。


Many animals had been born to whom the Rebellion was only a dim tradition, passed on by word of mouth, and others had been bought who had never heard mention of such a thing before their arrival.
许多新生命只透过口耳相传得知抗争这个不清不楚的传说，而从外头买来的动物在进到农庄前都没听过这件事情。


The farm possessed three horses now besides Clover.
除了幸运草以外，农庄现在多了三匹马。


They were fine upstanding beasts, willing workers and good comrades, but very stupid.
他们身强体壮、任劳任怨，各个都是好同志，可是非常愚笨。


None of them proved able to learn the alphabet beyond the letter B.
字母顶多学到B。


They accepted everything that they were told about the Rebellion and the principles of Animalism, especially from Clover, for whom they had an almost filial respect; but it was doubtful whether they understood very much of it.
这三匹马对抗争的故事还有动物主义全盘接受，还特别听幸运草的话，因为她就像他们的母亲。然而，大家怀疑他们听得懂多少。


The farm was more prosperous now, and better organised: it had even been enlarged by two fields which had been bought from Mr. Pilkington.
农庄现在更繁荣、更井然有序，甚至还从皮金顿那里买了两块地。


The windmill had been successfully completed at last, and the farm possessed a threshing machine and a hay elevator of its own, and various new buildings had been added to it.
风车最后终于顺利完工，目前农庄有打谷机及干草堆高机，多盖了几栋不同的建筑物。


Whymper had bought himself a dogcart.
温普则添了辆双轮马车。


The windmill, however, had not after all been used for generating electrical power.
风车始终没能用来发电。


It was used for milling corn, and brought in a handsome money profit.
只当作谷物磨坊，但为农庄带来了丰厚的收入。


The animals were hard at work building yet another windmill; when that one was finished, so it was said, the dynamos would be installed.
动物们正努力建造第二座。大家说，等这座风车盖好就会装上发电机。


But the luxuries of which Snowball had once taught the animals to dream, the stalls with electric light and hot and cold water, and the three-day week, were no longer talked about.
不过，雪球当初为动物们勾勒出的美好梦想，像是有电灯及冷热水的厩棚还有周休四日等，都已不再被提起。


Napoleon had denounced such ideas as contrary to the spirit of Animalism.
拿破仑谴责这些梦想违反动物主义精神。


The truest happiness, he said, lay in working hard and living frugally.
他说最实在的幸福乃是辛勤工作、俭朴生活。


Somehow it seemed as though the farm had grown richer without making the animals themselves any richer-except, of course, for the pigs and the dogs.
不知道为什么，虽然农庄欣欣向荣，动物们似乎没有比较富足。


Perhaps this was partly because there were so many pigs and so many dogs.
当然，猪和狗例外，或许这多少是因为庄里有太多猪、狗。


It was not that these creatures did not work, after their fashion.
他们并非不工作，而是做的事情不一样。


There was, as Squealer was never tired of explaining, endless work in the supervision and organisation of the farm.
尖叫者总不厌其烦地解释，他们要忙着监督，好维持事情的条理，这差事怎么做也做不完。


Much of this work was of a kind that the other animals were too ignorant to understand.
更有很多地方是凭其他动物的智慧所无法理解的。


For example, Squealer told them that the pigs had to expend enormous labours every day upon mysterious things called “files,” “reports,” “minutes,” and “memoranda”.
尖叫者举了例子，猪每天得花费大量精力在一些谜般的事情上，如“卷宗”、“报告”、“笔记”还有“备忘录”。


These were large sheets of paper which had to be closely covered with writing, and as soon as they were so covered, they were burnt in the furnace.
这些全是很大张的纸，上面要写满密密麻麻的文字，写好后立即丢到火炉里烧掉。


This was of the highest importance for the welfare of the farm, Squealer said.
尖叫者表示，这工作对农庄福利影响至巨。


But still, neither pigs nor dogs produced any food by their own labour; and there were very many of them, and their appetites were always good.
但话说回来，猪和狗不事生产，偏偏他们数量庞大且胃口很好。


As for the others, their life, so far as they knew, was as it had always been.
至于其他动物，照目前看来其实没什么改变。


They were generally hungry, they slept on straw, they drank from the pool, they laboured in the fields; in winter they were troubled by the cold, and in summer by the flies.
他们常挨饿、睡在稻草上、喝水池水、在田里工作、冬天受冷、夏天被苍蝇骚扰。


Sometimes the older ones among them racked their dim memories and tried to determine whether in the early days of the Rebellion, when Jones’s expulsion was still recent, things had been better or worse than now.
有时候，年纪较长的动物努力探索模糊的记忆，试图判定现在的生活是否好过抗争成功初期，也就是琼斯刚被赶走的时候。


They could not remember.
但他们什么都记不得了。


There was nothing with which they could compare their present lives: they had nothing to go upon except Squealer’s lists of figures, which invariably demonstrated that everything was getting better and better.
他们找不到东西来跟目前的生活比较，唯一的参考只有尖叫者的一长串数据，那些数目总是显示一切愈来愈美好。


The animals found the problem insoluble; in any case, they had little time for speculating on such things now.
动物们发现这个问题根本无解，然而不管怎样，他们现在也没什么时间能思考。


Only old Benjamin professed to remember every detail of his long life and to know that things never had been, nor ever could be much better or much worse — hunger, hardship, and disappointment being, so he said, the unalterable law of life.
只有老班杰明声称自己记得这漫长的一辈子发生过的所有细节，而且知道生活从来没有变好或变坏，以后也将如此。他说，饥饿、困苦、失望，这些都是生活中改变不了的定数。


And yet the animals never gave up hope.
不过，动物们从未放弃希望。


More, they never lost, even for an instant, their sense of honour and privilege in being members of Animal Farm.
而且身为动物农庄一员的荣誉感与优越感一直存在于他们心中，片刻未曾消逝。


They were still the only farm in the whole county — in all England! — owned and operated by animals.
他们依旧是整个国家—整个英格兰！唯一一座归动物所有、由动物经营的农庄。


Not one of them, not even the youngest, not even the newcomers who had been brought from farms ten or twenty miles away, ever ceased to marvel at that.
动物们总对此惊叹不已，就算是最年轻或者从几十公里外的农庄被带来的新成员也不例外。


And when they heard the gun booming and saw the green flag fluttering at the masthead, their hearts swelled with imperishable pride, and the talk turned always towards the old heroic days, the expulsion of Jones, the writing of the Seven Commandments, the great battles in which the human invaders had been defeated.
听着枪响，看着绿色旗帜在旗杆上飞扬，这些动物内心便洋溢着永不磨灭的骄傲感。聚会演讲总会谈到过去那段英勇岁月，像是驱逐琼斯、涂写七诫以及几场击败人类入侵者的伟大战争等等。


None of the old dreams had been abandoned.
动物们没有放弃任何旧日梦想。


The Republic of the Animals which Major had foretold, when the green fields of England should be untrodden by human feet, was still believed in.
老少校所预言的动物共和国，领土上那片毫无人类足迹的英格兰绿地，仍是大家心中的信仰。


Some day it was coming: it might not be soon, it might not be with in the lifetime of any animal now living, but still it was coming.
这个梦想有天会实现，或许不会马上成真，或许目前活着的动物皆无法亲眼见证，但总有那么一天。


Even the tune of ‘Beasts of England’ was perhaps hummed secretly here and there: at any rate, it was a fact that every animal on the farm knew it, though no one would have dared to sing it aloud.
农庄内的动物大概还会偷偷地哼唱《英格兰之兽》，不管怎么说，其实庄内每只动物都知道这首歌，只是不敢大声唱出来。


It might be that their lives were hard and that not all of their hopes had been fulfilled; but they were conscious that they were not as other animals.
他们的生活或许艰辛，心中的希望或许没有全部达成，但他们很清楚自己和其他动物不一样。


If they went hungry, it was not from feeding tyrannical human beings; if they worked hard, at least they worked for themselves.
他们挨饿并不是因为要喂饱暴虐的人类，他们辛勤工作至少是为自己努力。


No creature among them went upon two legs.
他们之间没有谁是靠两只脚站立的。


No creature called any other creature “Master.”
也没有谁要叫谁“主人”。


All animals were equal.
所有动物一律平等。


One day in early summer Squealer ordered the sheep to follow him, and led them out to a piece of waste ground at the other end of the farm, which had become overgrown with birch saplings.
初夏某一天，尖叫者命令羊群跟他走，把他们带到农庄一端的荒地去，那里长满了桦树苗。


The sheep spent the whole day there browsing at the leaves under Squealer’s supervision.
在尖叫者监督下，羊群吃了一整天树叶。


In the evening he returned to the farmhouse himself, but, as it was warm weather, told the sheep to stay where they were.
到了晚上，尖叫者独自回到农舍，因为天气暖和，所以他要羊群留在原地。


It ended by their remaining there for a whole week, during which time the other animals saw nothing of them.
他们在那里待了整整一个星期，这段时间里，其他动物没见着半头羊。


Squealer was with them for the greater part of every day.
尖叫者每天大部分的时间都和羊群在一起。


He was, he said, teaching them to sing a new song, for which privacy was needed.
说是在教他们唱新歌，得选在安静的地方进行。


It was just after the sheep had returned, on a pleasant evening when the animals had finished work and were making their way back to the farm buildings, that the terrified neighing of a horse sounded from the yard.
羊群回来后没多久，一个舒服的夜里，动物们结束工作回到仓舍，院子里突然传来可怕的马鸣声。


Startled, the animals stopped in their tracks.
大家吓了一跳，纷纷停下脚步。


It was Clover’s voice.
那是幸运草的叫声。


She neighed again, and all the animals broke into a gallop and rushed into the yard.
她再度嘶鸣，所有动物赶忙冲向院子。


Then they saw what Clover had seen.
幸运草所见画面映入大家眼帘。


It was a pig walking on his hind legs.
一头猪正在用后腿走路。


Yes, it was Squealer.
没错，是尖叫者。


A little awkwardly, as though not quite used to supporting his considerable bulk in that position, but with perfect balance, he was strolling across the yard.
他走路的样子有点笨拙，仿佛还不太习惯以这种姿势来支撑庞大的身躯，但步伐很平稳，他正在院子里散步。


And a moment later, out from the door of the farmhouse came a long file of pigs, all walking on their hind legs.
之后，一长列猪群从农舍大门内走出来，全部用后腿走路。


Some did it better than others, one or two were even a trifle unsteady and looked as though they would have liked the support of a stick, but every one of them made his way right round the yard successfully.
有些走得比其他好，然而其中一两头猪甚至有点不稳，看起来好像需要拐杖，不过这些猪各个成功绕了院子一圈。


And finally there was a tremendous baying of dogs and a shrill crowing from the black cockerel, and out came Napoleon himself, majestically upright, casting haughty glances from side to side, and with his dogs gambolling round him.
最后，一阵凌厉的狗叫和黑公鸡刺耳的啼叫后，拿破仑直挺挺地走了出来，高傲的目光扫视四周，狗群在他身边蹦蹦跳跳。


He carried a whip in his trotter.
拿破仑蹄子夹着一根皮鞭。


There was a deadly silence.
现场一片死寂。


Amazed, terrified, huddling together, the animals watched the long line of pigs march slowly round the yard.
动物们惊恐地挤在一起，看着猪列队在院子中缓慢绕行。


It was as though the world had turned upside-down.
仿佛整个世界颠倒过来了。


Then there came a moment when the first shock had worn off and when, in spite of everything-in spite of their terror of the dogs, and of the habit, developed through long years, of never complaining, never criticising, no matter what happened — they might have uttered some word of protest.
第一时间的震惊消退后，动物们突然觉得，虽然狗很恐怖，而且大家那么多年下来已经习惯对任何事情不抱怨、不批评，但这次该不顾一切地表达些反对意见吧。


But just at that moment, as though at a signal, all the sheep burst out into a tremendous bleating of —
就在这个时候，所有羊群仿佛接收到暗号齐声咩叫：



“Four legs good, two legs BETTER! Four legs good, two legs BETTER! Four legs good, two legs BETTER!”
“四足善，双足更善！四足善，双足更善！四足善，双足更善！”


It went on for five minutes without stopping.
咩叫声毫不停歇地持续了五分钟。


And by the time the sheep had quieted down, the chance to utter any protest had passed, for the pigs had marched back into the farmhouse.
等到羊群静下来，大家也没机会抗议了，因为猪群已经走回农舍里。


Benjamin felt a nose nuzzling at his shoulder.
班杰明觉得有动物用鼻子顶他肩膀。


He looked round. It was Clover.
回头看才发现是幸运草。


Her old eyes looked dimmer than ever.
她双眼老花得比以往更严重了。


Without saying anything, she tugged gently at his mane and led him round to the end of the big barn, where the Seven Commandments were written.
幸运草一语不发地咬着班杰明的鬃毛，把他拉到大谷仓一头，写着七诫的那面墙边。


For a minute or two they stood gazing at the tatted wall with its white lettering.
他们站在这面涂满沥青的墙壁前，盯着上面的白色字体看了一两分钟。


“My sight is failing,” she said finally.
“我眼睛快不行了，”幸运草最后开口道。


“Even when I was young I could not have read what was written there.
“就算是年轻的时候，我也读不懂上面的字。


But it appears to me that that wall looks different.
但这面墙看起来好像有点不同。


Are the Seven Commandments the same as they used to be, Benjamin?”
班杰明，七诫的内容依旧是那样吗？”


For once Benjamin consented to break his rule, and he read out to her what was written on the wall.
这一次，班杰明同意破个例，将墙上写的东西念给幸运草听。


There was nothing there now except a single Commandment.
如今，这面墙上什么都没有，只有一条诫律。


It ran:
内容是：


ALL ANIMALS ARE EQUAL
所有动物一律平等，


BUT SOME ANIMALS ARE MORE EQUAL THAN OTHERS
但有些动物比其他动物更为平等。


After that it did not seem strange when next day the pigs who were supervising the work of the farm all carried whips in their trotters.
这之后，到了第二天，猪在监督农事时，蹄子上总会夹条皮鞭。


It did not seem strange to learn that the pigs had bought themselves a wireless set, were arranging to install a telephone, and had taken out subscriptions to ‘John Bull’, ‘Tit-Bits’, and the ‘Daily Mirror’. 
他们买了无线收音机，准备要装电话，订了《约翰牛报》、《珍事报》和《每日镜报》，大家也看过拿破仑嘴里叼着烟斗在花园里散步，这些现在已经不足为奇，猪甚至从衣橱里拿琼斯先生的衣服出来穿。

It did not seem strange when Napoleon was seen strolling in the farmhouse garden with a pipe in his mouth — no, not even when the pigs took Mr. Jones’s clothes out of the wardrobes and put them on, Napoleon himself appearing in a black coat, ratcatcher breeches, and leather leggings, while his favourite sow appeared in the watered silk dress which Mrs. Jones had been used to wearing on Sundays.
拿破仑一身黑色大衣、捕鼠马裤及皮革绑腿，他最爱的母猪穿着琼斯太太星期天最常穿的波纹绸洋装，这些也都见怪不怪了。


A week later, in the afternoon, a number of dog-carts drove up to the farm.
一周后，有天下午，几辆双轮马车驶进农庄。


A deputation of neighbouring farmers had been invited to make a tour of inspection.
原来邻近农庄受到邀请派代表来参访。


They were shown all over the farm, and expressed great admiration for everything they saw, especially the windmill.
他们整座农庄绕了一圈，对所见到的一切赞叹不已，尤其是风车更为他们所称道。


The animals were weeding the turnip field.
动物在萝卜田里除草，辛勤工作，脸总是向着地面。


They worked diligently hardly raising their faces from the ground, and not knowing whether to be more frightened of the pigs or of the human visitors.
不知道是比较怕猪，还是比较怕来访的人类。


That evening loud laughter and bursts of singing came from the farmhouse.
那天晚上，农舍内传来宏亮的笑声和歌声。


And suddenly, at the sound of the mingled voices, the animals were stricken with curiosity.
各种声音交错之下，动物们突然感到好奇。


What could be happening in there, now that for the first time animals and human beings were meeting on terms of equality?
动物和人类首次以对等身分碰面，会发生什么事情呢？


With one accord they began to creep as quietly as possible into the farmhouse garden.
于是大家不约而同地爬向农舍花园，尽量不出半点声响。


At the gate they paused, half frightened to go on but Clover led the way in.
动物们在大门前停住，有点不敢再往前走，最后由幸运草带头进入。


They tiptoed up to the house, and such animals as were tall enough peered in at the dining-room window.
他们踮起脚尖走近房舍，比较高大的动物则从餐厅窗户往内看。


There, round the long table, sat half a dozen farmers and half a dozen of the more eminent pigs, Napoleon himself occupying the seat of honour at the head of the table.
餐桌边坐着六名农夫以及六只更为显眼的猪，拿破仑则坐在桌头主位。


The pigs appeared completely at ease in their chairs.
这些猪坐在椅子上看起来很怡然自得。


The company had been enjoying a game of cards but had broken off for the moment, evidently in order to drink a toast.
他们之前在玩纸牌游戏，现在稍作歇息，显然是准备要干杯。


A large jug was circulating, and the mugs were being refilled with beer.
一个大酒罐在桌上传来传去，斟满一杯杯啤酒。


No one noticed the wondering faces of the animals that gazed in at the window.
里头的人或猪都没有发现窗户外有动物满脸疑惑地向内张望。


Mr. Pilkington, of Foxwood, had stood up, his mug in his hand.
狐林农庄的皮金顿先生手拿酒杯站起来。


In a moment, he said, he would ask the present company to drink a toast.
皮金顿先生说他希望在场各位可以干一杯。


But before doing so, there were a few words that he felt it incumbent upon him to say.
但在这之前，他认为自己应该先说些话。


It was a source of great satisfaction to him, he said — and, he was sure, to all others present — to feel that a long period of mistrust and misunderstanding had now come to an end.
皮金顿表示，长久以来的不信任与误解如今终于告一段落，相信这对他以及在座诸位来说都是件弥足欣慰之事。


There had been a time — not that he, or any of the present company, had shared such sentiments — but there had been a time when the respected proprietors of Animal Farm had been regarded, he would not say with hostility, but perhaps with a certain measure of misgiving, by their human neighbours.
过去曾有一段时间，不论他自己或在场各位都没有这样的感受，当时，人类邻居对受到敬重的动物农庄所有者怀有疑虑—不是敌意，疑虑罢了。


Unfortunate incidents had occurred, mistaken ideas had been current.
之前发生过不幸事件，也有过一些误会。


It had been felt that the existence of a farm owned and operated by pigs was somehow abnormal and was liable to have an unsettling effect in the neighbourhood.
大家觉得一座归猪所有、由猪管理的农庄总是违背常理，可能会为邻近农庄带来纷扰。


Too many farmers had assumed, without due enquiry, that on such a farm a spirit of licence and indiscipline would prevail.
很多农夫不先打听清楚就以为这样的农庄鼓吹放纵思想、脱序行为。


They had been nervous about the effects upon their own animals, or even upon their human employees.
他们担心自己的牲畜或手下也会被影响。


But all such doubts were now dispelled.
但这些疑虑如今尽皆烟消云散。


Today he and his friends had visited Animal Farm and inspected every inch of it with their own eyes, and what did they find?
今天，他和他的朋友参访动物农庄，亲眼目睹农庄内的一点一滴，他们看到了什么呢？


Not only the most up-to-date methods, but a discipline and an orderliness which should be an example to all farmers everywhere.
最先进的制度。而且庄内纪律严明、井然有序，足以当所有农夫的榜样。


He believed that he was right in saying that the lower animals on Animal Farm did more work and received less food than any animals in the county.
他认为，和威灵顿其他农庄动物比起来，动物农庄里的低下动物可说做更多的活、吃更少的粮食。


Indeed, he and his fellow-visitors today had observed many features which they intended to introduce on their own farms immediately.
事实上，他和其他造访者今天观察到许多特点，回去后打算马上在自家农庄施行。


He would end his remarks, he said, by emphasising once again the friendly feelings that subsisted, and ought to subsist, between Animal Farm and its neighbours.
皮金顿表示自己的话到此为止，还不忘再次强调动物农庄及其邻居之间已然存在且应该维系下去的友谊。


Between pigs and human beings there was not, and there need not be, any clash of interests whatever.
猪和人类之间没有、也不该有任何利益冲突。


Their struggles and their difficulties were one.
因为他们努力的目标和面临的困难都一样。


Was not the labour problem the same everywhere?
劳力问题不是到处相同吗？


Here it became apparent that Mr. Pilkington was about to spring some carefully prepared witticism on the company, but for a moment he was too overcome by amusement to be able to utter it.
说到这里，皮金顿显然是准备幽默一下，但他却开心到说不出话来。


After much choking, during which his various chins turned purple, he managed to get it out: “If you have your lower animals to contend with,” he said, “we have our lower classes!”
他努力抑制笑意，下巴都憋得发紫了，最后才说出：“你们有低下动物要伤脑筋，我们也有低下阶级要处理！”


This BON MOT set the table in a roar; and Mr. Pilkington once again congratulated the pigs on the low rations, the long working hours, and the general absence of pampering which he had observed on Animal Farm.
这句妙语在餐桌上引起一阵大笑。之后，皮金顿再次向猪道贺，恭喜他们能以少量配给让动物长时间工作，一点都不让动物饮食过量。


And now, he said finally, he would ask the company to rise to their feet and make certain that their glasses were full.
最后，皮金顿示意大家站起来，并在杯子里斟满酒。


“Gentlemen,” concluded Mr. Pilkington, “gentlemen, I give you a toast: To the prosperity of Animal Farm!”
“各位先生，”他说道：“各位先生，我们来干杯，祝动物农庄繁荣昌盛！”


There was enthusiastic cheering and stamping of feet.
热烈的喝采声和跺脚声四起。


Napoleon was so gratified that he left his place and came round the table to clink his mug against Mr. Pilkington’s before emptying it.
拿破仑非常开心，于是离开座位，绕到皮金顿身边，和他干完最后一口酒。


When the cheering had died down, Napoleon, who had remained on his feet, intimated that he too had a few words to say.
喝采声歇止后，依旧以双脚站立的拿破仑表示也有些话要讲。


Like all of Napoleon’s speeches, it was short and to the point.
这席话和拿破仑其他演讲一样简明扼要。


He too, he said, was happy that the period of misunderstanding was at an end.
他说，他也很高兴看到那一段彼此误会的时期告一段落。


For a long time there had been rumours — circulated, he had reason to think, by some malignant enemy — that there was something subversive and even revolutionary in the outlook of himself and his colleagues.
长久以来，始终有谣言说他和其他猪只同僚在鼓吹颠覆行动，甚至提倡革命，他合理怀疑散布者为某些邪恶敌人，这些敌人把他们讲成是抗争分子。


They had been credited with attempting to stir up rebellion among the animals on neighbouring farms.
说他们企图煽动邻近农庄的动物。


Nothing could be further from the truth!
但事实是无法扭曲的！


Their sole wish, now and in the past, was to live at peace and in normal business relations with their neighbours.
一直以来，他们唯一的愿望就是与邻居和平共处、维持正常的贸易关系。


This farm which he had the honour to control, he added, was a co-operative enterprise.
他有幸治理的这座农庄其实是合作事业。


The title-deeds, which were in his own possession, were owned by the pigs jointly.
手中的农庄地契其实为所有猪共同拥有。


He did not believe, he said, that any of the old suspicions still lingered, but certain changes had been made recently in the routine of the farm which should have the effect of promoting confidence still further.
拿破仑表示，过去那些猜忌不会再继续下去。而且农庄生活习气最近也做了些改正，相信能进一步增强彼此信任。


Hitherto the animals on the farm had had a rather foolish custom of addressing one another as “Comrade.”
从过去到现在，农庄动物有个愚蠢的习惯，老是称呼对方“同志”。


This was to be suppressed.
这以后要加以禁止。


There had also been a very strange custom, whose origin was unknown, of marching every Sunday morning past a boar’s skull which was nailed to a post in the garden.
庄内还有一个奇怪规矩，花园里有根木杆，上面钉了个公猪头骨，每星期天早晨大家都得列队经过。


This, too, would be suppressed, and the skull had already been buried.
这规矩不知道是从哪来的，也要禁止，那颗头骨现在已经埋起来了。


His visitors might have observed, too, the green flag which flew from the masthead.
再者，来访人士不知是否看见旗杆上飘扬的绿色旗帜。


If so, they would perhaps have noted that the white hoof and horn with which it had previously been marked had now been removed.
若有，应该会注意到原本画在上面的白蹄、白角已经不见了。


It would be a plain green flag from now onwards.
这面旗帜今后都会维持绿色素面。


He had only one criticism, he said, to make of Mr. Pilkington’s excellent and neighbourly speech.
对于皮金顿出色、友善的演说，拿破仑说他只有一点意见。


Mr. Pilkington had referred throughout to “Animal Farm.”
皮金顿先生从头到尾都以“动物农庄”相称。


He could not of course know — for he, Napoleon, was only now for the first time announcing it — that the name “Animal Farm” had been abolished.
当然，皮金顿先生还不知道，毕竟这是拿破仑首次宣布——“动物农庄”这个名字已经废除。


Henceforward the farm was to be known as “The Manor Farm” — which, he believed, was its correct and original name.
从今以后，这座农庄改名为“曼诺农庄”，拿破仑认为这才是最正确、最初始的名称。


“Gentlemen,” concluded Napoleon, “I will give you the same toast as before, but in a different form. Fill your glasses to the brim. Gentlemen, here is my toast: To the prosperity of The Manor Farm!”
“各位先生，”拿破仑演讲末尾说道：“我也想向大家敬酒，但说辞有点不一样。现在，请把酒斟满。各位先生，我敬你们一杯，祝曼诺农庄繁荣昌盛！”



There was the same hearty cheering as before, and the mugs were emptied to the dregs.
餐厅内再次响起热情的喝采，大家将酒一饮而尽。


But as the animals outside gazed at the scene, it seemed to them that some strange thing was happening.
外头的动物盯着里头看，他们觉得似乎有点不对劲。


What was it that had altered in the faces of the pigs?
猪的脸是不是变了？


Clover’s old dim eyes flitted from one face to another.
幸运草老花的双眼瞥过所有猪只。


Some of them had five chins, some had four, some had three.
有的有五层下巴，有的四层，有的三层。


But what was it that seemed to be melting and changing?
那些不断融化、改变的是什么东西？


Then, the applause having come to an end, the company took up their cards and continued the game that had been interrupted, and the animals crept silently away.
接着，掌声停歇，餐桌边的猪和人重新拿起纸牌，继续玩到一半的游戏，动物们则悄悄地爬离农舍。


But they had not gone twenty yards when they stopped short.
在离开农舍还不到二十公尺的时候，动物们突然停下脚步。


An uproar of voices was coming from the farmhouse.
一阵喧闹声从屋子里传来。


They rushed back and looked through the window again.
他们赶紧往回爬，再度往窗内望去。


Yes, a violent quarrel was in progress.
没错，屋里的猪和人吵得不可开交。


There were shoutings, bangings on the table, sharp suspicious glances, furious denials.
他们嘶吼叫骂还拍打桌子，一边眼神满是猜忌，一边不断矢口否认。


The source of the trouble appeared to be that Napoleon and Mr. Pilkington had each played an ace of spades simultaneously.
争端好像是拿破仑和皮金顿手上同时持有黑桃Ａ。


Twelve voices were shouting in anger, and they were all alike.
十二种不同的声音同时愤怒叫喊，但其实都一个样。


No question, now, what had happened to the faces of the pigs.
如今，不须再问猪的脸有什么变化。


The creatures outside looked from pig to man, and from man to pig, and from pig to man again; but already it was impossible to say which was which.
外头的动物看看猪又看看人，看看人又看看猪，接着又看看猪再看看人，眼前已是猪人难辨。


