Chapter 8
第八章


A few days later, when the terror caused by the executions had died down, some of the animals remembered — or thought they remembered — that the Sixth Commandment decreed “No animal shall kill any other animal.”
几天后，处决造成的恐慌退去，有些动物想起，或认为他们记得，第六诫是这么规定的：“不可杀害其他同类。”


And though no one cared to mention it in the hearing of the pigs or the dogs, it was felt that the killings which had taken place did not square with this.
虽然不想让猪或狗听到他们议论，但处决行动和这条诫律背道而驰，大家心知肚明。


Clover asked Benjamin to read her the Sixth Commandment, and when Benjamin, as usual, said that he refused to meddle in such matters, she fetched Muriel.
幸运草要班杰明念第六诫给她听，当班杰明一如往常地表示不愿涉入时，幸运草又去找穆里儿帮忙。


Muriel read the Commandment for her.
穆里儿念给她听。


It ran: “No animal shall kill any other animal WITHOUT CAUSE.”
上面写着：“不可无故杀害其他同类。”


Somehow or other, the last two words had slipped out of the animals’ memory.
不知道为什么，无故这两个字从动物们的记忆中消失了。


But they saw now that the Commandment had not been violated; for clearly there was good reason for killing the traitors who had leagued themselves with Snowball.
而现在，他们知道拿破仑没有违反诫律，因为处死和雪球同谋的叛徒具有正当理由。


Throughout the year the animals worked even harder than they had worked in the previous year.
那一整年里，动物们比往年更辛勤工作。


To rebuild the windmill, with walls twice as thick as before, and to finish it by the appointed date, together with the regular work of the farm, was a tremendous labour.
他们要在预定日期之内重建风车，并且修筑起比之前厚两倍的边墙。日常农事仍得兼顾，所付出的劳力十分惊人。


There were times when it seemed to the animals that they worked longer hours and fed no better than they had done in Jones’s day.
有时候，动物们觉得自己工作时间增加了，食物配给却不比琼斯时代好。


On Sunday mornings Squealer, holding down a long strip of paper with his trotter, would read out to them lists of figures proving that the production of every class of foodstuff had increased by two hundred per cent, three hundred per cent, or five hundred per cent, as the case might be.
每个星期天早晨，尖叫者总拿着一张很长的纸条，念出纸上一长串的数字，证明各种食物的产量皆有成长。依种类不同，有的增加百分之两百，有的增加百分之三百，有的更达到百分之五百。


The animals saw no reason to disbelieve him, especially as they could no longer remember very clearly what conditions had been like before the Rebellion.
动物们没有理由不相信尖叫者，尤其是现在他们已经记不得抗争前的食物生产状况。



All the same, there were days when they felt that they would sooner have had less figures and more food.
但他们有时候还是会希望能少点数字，多点食物。


All orders were now issued through Squealer or one of the other pigs.
现在，所有命令皆由尖叫者或其他猪只下达。


Napoleon himself was not seen in public as often as once in a fortnight.
拿破仑每半个月才会公开露面一次。


When he did appear, he was attended not only by his retinue of dogs but by a black cockerel who marched in front of him and acted as a kind of trumpeter, letting out a loud “cock-a-doodle-doo” before Napoleon spoke.
每次现身不但有狗护卫，还有只黑色小公鸡走在前头。拿破仑开口说话前，小公鸡会像号手般大声啼叫。


Even in the farmhouse, it was said, Napoleon inhabited separate apartments from the others.
大家都说，即使在农舍里，拿破仑也不和其他猪同室而居。


He took his meals alone, with two dogs to wait upon him, and always ate from the Crown Derby dinner service which had been in the glass cupboard in the drawing-room.
他独自用餐，只有两条狗在旁服侍，而且还从客厅玻璃橱柜内找来皇冠德比高级餐具组，用以进食。


It was also announced that the gun would be fired every year on Napoleon’s birthday, as well as on the other two anniversaries.
猪更宣布，拿破仑生日要比照其他两个纪念日，每年鸣枪庆祝。


Napoleon was now never spoken of simply as “Napoleon.”
现在，动物们讲到拿破仑不再单单只叫他“拿破仑”。


He was always referred to in formal style as “our Leader, Comrade Napoleon,” and this pigs liked to invent for him such titles as Father of All Animals, Terror of Mankind, Protector of the Sheep-fold, Ducklings’ Friend, and the like.
而会很正式地称呼“我们的领袖拿破仑同志”。猪只们还很喜欢帮他创造一些新的称号，像是动物之父、人类克星、羊圈守护者、小鸭之友等等。


In his speeches, Squealer would talk with the tears rolling down his cheeks of Napoleon’s wisdom the goodness of his heart, and the deep love he bore to all animals everywhere, even and especially the unhappy animals who still lived in ignorance and slavery on other farms.
而尖叫者在发表演讲的时候，每每谈起拿破仑的聪明才智、慈善心肠、对各地动物的爱以及对其他农庄仍受奴役的无知不幸动物之特别关怀，总会说得涕泪纵横。


It had become usual to give Napoleon the credit for every successful achievement and every stroke of good fortune.
大家习惯将所有成就与各种好运都归功于拿破仑，你常会听到一只母鸡对另一只母鸡说：“在我们的领袖拿破仑同志领导下，我六天下了五颗蛋。”


You would often hear one hen remark to another, “Under the guidance of our Leader, Comrade Napoleon, I have laid five eggs in six days”; or two cows, enjoying a drink at the pool, would exclaim, “Thanks to the leadership of Comrade Napoleon, how excellent this water tastes!”
你也可能听到两头在池边快乐饮水的牛惊呼：“幸好有拿破仑同志领导我们，这水真是太好喝了！”


The general feeling on the farm was well expressed in a poem entitled Comrade Napoleon, which was composed by Minimus and which ran as follows:
农庄内的普遍感受都呈现在名为“拿破仑同志”的诗里，这首诗由小指所作，内容如下：

Friend of fatherless!
失怙之友！


Fountain of happiness!
幸福之源！


Lord of the swill-bucket!
饭桶之主！


Oh, how my soul is on
啊，汝之眼神沉着威赫，


Fire when I gaze at thy
注视令吾心头热，


Calm and commanding eye,
注视令吾心头热，


Like the sun in the sky,
一如当空之日，


Comrade Napoleon!
拿破仑同志！


Thou are the giver of
伟大施予者，


All that thy creatures love,
各兽所求皆应允，


Full belly twice a day, clean straw to roll upon;
每日常得二餐饱，洁净稻草作床靠；


Every beast great or small
众兽无论大抑小，


Sleeps at peace in his stall,
厩棚之内享安眠，


Thou watchest over all,
万兽看护者，


Comrade Napoleon!
拿破仑同志！


Had I a sucking-pig,
一日使吾得后代，


Ere he had grown as big
于其长大成猪前，


Even as a pint bottle or as a rolling-pin,
纵使酒瓶面棍小，


He should have learned to be
皆当学习忠诚表，


Faithful and true to thee,
皆当学习忠诚表，


Yes, his first squeak should be
诚然，牙牙开口首句词：


“Comrade Napoleon!”
“拿破仑同志！”


Napoleon approved of this poem and caused it to be inscribed on the wall of the big barn, at the opposite end from the Seven Commandments.
拿破仑认可这首诗，还让动物写在谷仓墙上正对着七诫的位置。


It was surmounted by a portrait of Napoleon, in profile, executed by Squealer in white paint.
诗的上方是拿破仑的侧身像，由尖叫者以白漆绘成。


Meanwhile, through the agency of Whymper, Napoleon was engaged in complicated negotiations with Frederick and Pilkington.
同时，在温普仲介下，拿破仑和腓特烈及皮金顿正进行着繁杂的谈判。


The pile of timber was still unsold.
木材目前尚未卖出。


Of the two, Frederick was the more anxious to get hold of it, but he would not offer a reasonable price.
两个买家中，腓特烈意愿较为强烈，但却不想开个合理价钱。


At the same time there were renewed rumours that Frederick and his men were plotting to attack Animal Farm and to destroy the windmill, the building of which had aroused furious jealousy in him.
在这期间还有新的传言，说是腓特烈和他手下正密谋攻击动物农庄，打算摧毁风车这个让他极为眼红的建筑物。


Snowball was known to be still skulking on Pinchfield Farm.
据悉，雪球还躲在狭地农庄里。


In the middle of the summer the animals were alarmed to hear that three hens had come forward and confessed that, inspired by Snowball, they had entered into a plot to murder Napoleon.
仲夏时分，三只母鸡自承在雪球煽动下参与过一项谋杀拿破仑的计划，动物们听闻此事皆感到十分讶异。


They were executed immediately, and fresh precautions for Napoleon’s safety were taken.
这些母鸡立即遭到处死，拿破仑的安全重新受到关切。


Four dogs guarded his bed at night, one at each corner, and a young pig named Pinkeye was given the task of tasting all his food before he ate it, lest it should be poisoned.
之后，夜里总会有四条狗待在他床边四个角落，负责看守工作。一条年纪较轻的狗名为粉红眼，他负责在拿破仑进食前试吃所有食物，以免里面有毒。


At about the same time it was given out that Napoleon had arranged to sell the pile of timber to Mr. Pilkington; he was also going to enter into a regular agreement for the exchange of certain products between Animal Farm and Foxwood.
大概在这段时间里，有消息说拿破仑打算把木材卖给皮金顿先生，而且动物农庄和狐林农庄准备签订一份长期协议，彼此交换物资。


The relations between Napoleon and Pilkington, though they were only conducted through Whymper, were now almost friendly.
拿破仑与皮金顿之间的关系虽然仍靠温普居中联系，但他俩现在可谓形同朋友。


The animals distrusted Pilkington, as a human being, but greatly preferred him to Frederick, whom they both feared and hated.
皮金顿是人类，所以其他动物不信任他，但至少他比让动物们又惧又恨的腓特烈讨喜得多。


As the summer wore on, and the windmill neared completion, the rumours of an impending treacherous attack grew stronger and stronger.
夏季时光缓慢流转，风车即将竣工，有人会在近日发动奇袭的传言甚嚣尘上。


Frederick, it was said, intended to bring against them twenty men all armed with guns, and he had already bribed the magistrates and police, so that if he could once get hold of the title-deeds of Animal Farm they would ask no questions.
据闻腓特烈打算带二十名全副武装的手下攻击动物农庄，而且他已经花钱收买地方长官和警察，如果拿下动物农庄，那些人也不会过问。


Moreover, terrible stories were leaking out from Pinchfield about the cruelties that Frederick practised upon his animals.
此外，狭地农庄里传出更恐怖的消息，事关腓特烈如何残忍对待自己的动物。


He had flogged an old horse to death, he starved his cows, he had killed a dog by throwing it into the furnace, he amused himself in the evenings by making cocks fight with splinters of razor-blade tied to their spurs.
他活活鞭死一头老马、饿死乳牛、把狗丢进火炉里烧死，而且晚上的娱乐是在鸡爪上绑刮胡刀片，看公鸡互斗。


The animals’ blood boiled with rage when they heard of these things beingdone to their comrades, and sometimes they clamoured to be allowed to go out in a body and attack Pinchfield Farm, drive out the humans, and set the animals free.
动物们听到腓特烈对自己同志所做的一切，各个义愤填膺，时而鼓噪说要一起攻击狭地农庄，驱逐人类、解放动物。


But Squealer counselled them to avoid rash actions and trust in Comrade Napoleon’s strategy.
但尖叫者劝他们别意气用事，要相信拿破仑同志的策略。


Nevertheless, feeling against Frederick continued to run high.
动物们对腓特烈的反感情绪高涨不退。


One Sunday morning Napoleon appeared in the barn and explained that he had never at any time contemplated selling the pile of timber to Frederick; he considered it beneath his dignity, he said, to have dealings with scoundrels of that description.
有个星期天早晨，拿破仑来到谷仓，向动物们解释他从来没有想过要把木材卖给腓特烈，说是和那种恶棍交易有损身分。


The pigeons who were still sent out to spread tidings of the Rebellion were forbidden to set foot anywhere on Foxwood, and were also ordered to drop their former slogan of “Death to Humanity” in favour of “Death to Frederick.”
之后，拿破仑禁止四处散布抗争消息的鸽子在狐林农庄停留，还命令他们把原先的标语“杀死人类”改成“杀死腓特烈”。


In the late summer yet another of Snowball’s machinations was laid bare.
夏季接近尾声时，动物们又发现雪球另一个阴谋诡计。


The wheat crop was full of weeds, and it was discovered that on one of his nocturnal visits Snowball had mixed weed seeds with the seed corn.
那时小麦田里长满杂草，大家后来才搞清楚是雪球某天夜里潜回农庄，把杂草种子和谷物种子混在一起。


A gander who had been privy to the plot had confessed his guilt to Squealer and immediately committed suicide by swallowing deadly nightshade berries.
一只公鹅当时秘密参与这项计划，他向尖叫者坦承罪行，马上被罚吞食有毒莓果自尽。


The animals now also learned that Snowball had never — as many of them had believed hitherto — received the order of “Animal Hero, First Class.”
这时，动物们也才知道（因为他们之前一直以为），雪球从来没有获颁“动物英雄一等勋章”。


This was merely a legend which had been spread some time after the Battle of the Cowshed by Snowball himself.
这只是牛棚之战后雪球散布的谣言。


So far from being decorated, he had been censured for showing cowardice in the battle.
实际上他不但没有获得勋章，还因为在战斗中太过懦弱而遭到谴责。


Once again some of the animals heard this with a certain bewilderment, but Squealer was soon able to convince them that their memories had been at fault.
听了这个说法，有些动物再度感到困惑。但尖叫者立刻说服他们，让他们相信自己记错了。


In the autumn, by a tremendous, exhausting effort — for the harvest had to be gathered at almost the same time — the windmill was finished.
秋天里，为了兼顾作物的收成，动物们下足苦力。


The machinery had still to be installed, and Whymper was negotiating the purchase of it, but the structure was completed.
最后，风车终于建好，虽然机械装置还没装上去，目前在等温普处理购买事宜，但整体结构算是完成了。


In the teeth of every difficulty, in spite of inexperience, of primitive implements, of bad luck and of Snowball’s treachery, the work had been finished punctually to the very day!
历经重重困难，尽管动物们毫无经验、工具原始、运气不佳又遭遇雪球背叛，但风车总算在预定日期当天竣工了！


Tired out but proud, the animals walked round and round their masterpiece, which appeared even more beautiful in their eyes than when it had been built the first time.
动物们虽然筋疲力竭，但都感到十分骄傲，绕着自己的杰作一圈一圈走。在他们眼里，这座风车比第一次建造的那座还要漂亮。



Moreover, the walls were twice as thick as before.
而且它的墙壁有两倍厚。


Nothing short of explosives would lay them low this time!
除了炸药其他东西都摧毁不了。


And when they thought of how they had laboured, what discouragements they had overcome, and the enormous difference that would be made in their lives when the sails were turning and the dynamos running — when they thought of all this, their tiredness forsook them and they gambolled round and round the windmill, uttering cries of triumph.
动物们回想起自己付出多少劳力、克服多少障碍，只要风车翼开始转动、发电机开始运作，他们的生活将会产生巨大改变。一想到这些，肉体的疲惫一扫而空，大家雀跃地绕着风车，一圈又一圈，不时发出胜利的呼喊。


Napoleon himself, attended by his dogs and his cockerel, came down to inspect the completed work; he personally congratulated the animals on their achievement, and announced that the mill would be named Napoleon Mill.
拿破仑在狗和公鸡的伴随下前来视察，亲自恭喜动物们达成目标，宣布要将风车命名为拿破仑风车。


Two days later the animals were called together for a special meeting in the barn.
两天后，动物们全被叫到谷仓参加一场特别聚会。


They were struck dumb with surprise when Napoleon announced that he had sold the pile of timber to Frederick.
拿破仑表示已经将木材卖给腓特烈，这让大家目瞪口呆。


Tomorrow Frederick’s wagons would arrive and begin carting it away.
腓特烈的运货马车明天就要来载走木材，

Throughout the whole period of his seeming friendship with Pilkington, Napoleon had really been in secret agreement with Frederick.
这段时间里，拿破仑和皮金顿表面上一直维持朋友关系，实际上却和腓特烈达成密议。


All relations with Foxwood had been broken off; insulting messages had been sent to Pilkington.
动物农庄与狐林农庄断绝往来，还捎了封极羞辱人的信息给皮金顿。


The pigeons had been told to avoid Pinchfield Farm and to alter their slogan from “Death to Frederick” to “Death to Pilkington.”
拿破仑叫鸽子别去狭地农庄，并把“杀死腓特烈”的口号改成“杀死皮金顿”。


At the same time Napoleon assured the animals that the stories of an impending attack on Animal Farm were completely untrue, and that the tales about Frederick’s cruelty to his own animals had been greatly exaggerated.
同时，拿破仑向动物们保证，奇袭动物农庄的传言完全是空穴来风，关于腓特烈如何残忍对待动物的小道消息根本言过其实。


All these rumours had probably originated with Snowball and his agents.
所有谣言八成是雪球和他的密探编造的。


It now appeared that Snowball was not, after all, hiding on Pinchfield Farm, and in fact had never been there in his life: he was living — in considerable luxury, so it was said — at Foxwood, and had in reality been a pensioner of Pilkington for years past.
目前，雪球显然没躲在狭地农庄。事实上，他从来就没有到过那里，反而是住在狐林农庄，过着极为奢华的生活，过去几年都靠皮金顿吃喝。


The pigs were in ecstasies over Napoleon’s cunning.
拿破仑老谋深算让猪只们高兴极了。


By seeming to be friendly with Pilkington he had forced Frederick to raise his price by twelve pounds.
他表面上和皮金顿化敌为友，其实是要逼腓特烈多出十二镑。


But the superior quality of Napoleon’s mind, said Squealer, was shown in the fact that he trusted nobody, not even Frederick.
尖叫者说拿破仑谁都不信任，就连腓特烈也怀疑，从这里能看出他比我们睿智。


Frederick had wanted to pay for the timber with something called a cheque, which, it seemed, was a piece of paper with a promise to pay written upon it.
腓特烈原本打算要用一种叫支票的东西来支付购买木材的费用，这东西似乎是一张纸，上面写明付款承诺。



But Napoleon was too clever for him. He had demanded payment in real five-pound notes, which were to be handed over before the timber was removed.
聪明过人的拿破仑要求他把金额全换成五镑钞票来交易，而且木材送出农庄之前就要把钱送到。


Already Frederick had paid up; and the sum he had paid was just enough to buy the machinery for the windmill.
现在，腓特烈付清费用，他所支付的金额正好足够买风车的机械装置。


Meanwhile the timber was being carted away at high speed.
同时，腓特烈迅速将木材运离农庄。


When it was all gone, another special meeting was held in the barn for the animals to inspect Frederick’s bank-notes.
运送工作完结后，农庄谷仓内举行了另一场特别聚会，动物们集合在一起检查腓特烈的钞票。


Smiling beatifically, and wearing both his decorations, Napoleon reposed on a bed of straw on the platform, with the money at his side, neatly piled on a china dish from the farmhouse kitchen.
拿破仑笑盈盈地安坐在平台稻草堆中，身上还配戴着两面动物勋章，腓特烈的钱就搁在他身旁，整整齐齐地摆在从农舍厨房拿来的瓷盘上。


The animals filed slowly past, and each gazed his fill.
动物们排成一排慢慢地走过瓷盘，大家仔仔细细把钱检查了一次。


And Boxer put out his nose to sniff at the bank-notes, and the flimsy white things stirred and rustled in his breath.
拳击手还凑上前闻了闻，轻薄的白色纸钞随着鼻息飘动，发出沙沙的声响。


Three days later there was a terrible hullabaloo.
三天后，农庄内爆发大骚动，温普脸色死白地骑着脚踏车往农庄直冲。


Whymper, his face deadly pale, came racing up the path on his bicycle, flung it down in the yard and rushed straight into the farmhouse.
到了院子里，他把脚踏车一丢，迳自往农舍跑。


The next moment a choking roar of rage sounded from Napoleon’s apartments.
拿破仑住处随之传来一阵可怕的怒吼。


The news of what had happened sped round the farm like wildfire.
怒吼的原因像野火般迅速传入每只动物耳里。


The banknotes were forgeries!
那些钞票是假的！


Frederick had got the timber for nothing!
腓特烈没花半毛钱就得到了木材！


Napoleon called the animals together immediately and in a terrible voice pronounced the death sentence upon Frederick.
拿破仑立刻把动物们叫了过来，厉声宣布处腓特烈死刑。


When captured, he said, Frederick should be boiled alive.
他说等抓到腓特烈，一定要把他活活煮死。


At the same time he warned them that after this treacherous deed the worst was to be expected.
同时还提醒大家，这次骗局将带来最糟糕的后果。


Frederick and his men might make their long-expected attack at any moment.
腓特烈和他的手下任何时候都可能展开计划多时的攻击行动。


Sentinels were placed at all the approaches to the farm.
因此，拿破仑在农庄各个通道部署哨兵。


In addition, four pigeons were sent to Foxwood with a conciliatory message, which it was hoped might re-establish good relations with Pilkington.
还派四只鸽子到狐林农庄求和，希望能与皮金顿重修旧好。


The very next morning the attack came.
就在第二天早上，敌人攻势展开了。


The animals were at breakfast when the look-outs came racing in with the news that Frederick and his followers had already come through the five-barred gate.
当时动物们正在用早餐，哨兵跑进来报告说腓特烈及其手下已经通过栅门。


Boldly enough the animals sallied forth to meet them, but this time they did not have the easy victory that they had had in the Battle of the Cowshed.
动物们莽撞地冲到他们面前，但没有像牛棚之战那样轻松得胜。


There were fifteen men, with half a dozen guns between them, and they opened fire as soon as they got within fifty yards.
腓特烈那边有十五个人，其中一半拿着枪，见动物们进入五十公尺范围内便开始扫射。


The animals could not face the terrible explosions and the stinging pellets, and in spite of the efforts of Napoleon and Boxer to rally them, they were soon driven back.
虽然拿破仑和拳击手努力要重整势力，但大家承受不了爆炸的威力以及尖锐的散弹纷纷往后退。


A number of them were already wounded.
其中有些动物早已为枪弹所伤。


They took refuge in the farm buildings and peeped cautiously out from chinks and knot-holes.
他们在仓舍里避难，小心翼翼地从墙壁裂缝和洞孔往外窥望。


The whole of the big pasture, including the windmill, was in the hands of the enemy.
整片牧场还有风车皆为敌人所占领。


For the moment even Napoleon seemed at a loss.
此时，就连拿破仑也有点怅然若失。


He paced up and down without a word, his tail rigid and twitching.
他不发一语地来回走动，尾巴伸得又长又直。


Wistful glances were sent in the direction of Foxwood.
沉思的眼神不时望向狐林农庄。


If Pilkington and his men would help them, the day might yet be won.
如果皮金顿和他手下愿意帮忙，那还是有反败为胜的机会。


But at this moment the four pigeons, who had been sent out on the day before, returned, one of them bearing a scrap of paper from Pilkington.
然而，就在这个时候，之前派出去的四只鸽子回来了，其中一只啣着一张小纸条。


On it was pencilled the words: “Serves you right.”
皮金顿以铅笔在上面写下“你们活该”几个字。


Meanwhile Frederick and his men had halted about the windmill.
于此之际，腓特烈及其手下在风车前停下脚步。


The animals watched them, and a murmur of dismay went round.
动物看着他们，纷纷发出失望的悲鸣。


Two of the men had produced a crowbar and a sledge hammer.
两个男人拿着铁橇和大锤。


They were going to knock the windmill down.
他们打算摧毁风车。


“Impossible!” cried Napoleon.
“那是不可能的！”拿破仑喊道。


“We have built the walls far too thick for that.
“我们把墙壁盖得那么厚。


They could not knock it down in a week.
他们一个星期也没办法把它拆掉。


Courage, comrades!”
同志们，我们要有勇气！”


But Benjamin was watching the movements of the men intently.
班杰明专心地注视这些人的一举一动。


The two with the hammer and the crowbar were drilling a hole near the base of the windmill.
只见手持铁橇和大锤的两个男人在靠近风车地基的部分钻了一个洞。


Slowly, and with an air almost of amusement, Benjamin nodded his long muzzle.
班杰明兴味盎然地观看着，缓缓地点了点长长的驴嘴。


“I thought so,” he said. “Do you not see what they are doing?
“我是这么想的，”班杰明说：“你们看不出他们在干嘛吗？




In another moment they are going to pack blasting powder into that hole.”
他们等一下就会把火药塞进那个洞里。”


Terrified, the animals waited.
饱受惊吓的动物们静静等待。


It was impossible now to venture out of the shelter of the buildings.
现在要冒险离开仓舍的屏护是不可能的事情。


After a few minutes the men were seen to be running in all directions.
几分钟后，他们看着人类四处奔逃。


Then there was a deafening roar.
接着是一声轰然巨响。


The pigeons swirled into the air, and all the animals, except Napoleon, flung themselves flat on their bellies and hid their faces.
鸽子朝空中乱窜，除了拿破仑以外，所有动物缩成一团。


When they got up again, a huge cloud of black smoke was hanging where the windmill had been.
等大家站起来往外望时，一股黑烟罩住风车所在地。


Slowly the breeze drifted it away.
之后随着微风慢慢飘散。


The windmill had ceased to exist!
风车已不复存在！


At this sight the animals’ courage returned to them.
看着眼前这一幕，动物们心中再度萌生勇气。


The fear and despair they had felt a moment earlier were drowned in their rage against this vile, contemptible act.
人类卑鄙无耻的行动令他们勃然大怒，先前所感受到的恐惧与失望消失无踪。


A mighty cry for vengeance went up, and without waiting for further orders they charged forth in a body and made straight for the enemy.
此时，复仇之声大起。动物们不等拿破仑下令便集体向敌人笔直冲去。


This time they did not heed the cruel pellets that swept over them like hail.
这一次他们毫不在乎无情的枪弹冰雹般打在身上。


It was a savage, bitter battle.
一场凶猛暴烈的战争于焉展开。


The men fired again and again, and, when the animals got to close quarters, lashed out with their sticks and their heavy boots.
人类不断开枪，又在短兵相接时改用棍棒抽打或隔着厚重的靴子猛踹。


A cow, three sheep, and two geese were killed, and nearly everyone was wounded.
一头牛、三只羊还有两只鹅都阵亡了。


Even Napoleon, who was directing operations from the rear, had the tip of his tail chipped by a pellet.
其他动物几乎全挂彩，就连在后方指挥作战的拿破仑也被散弹射中尾巴末端。


But the men did not go unscathed either.
不过，人类也并非毫发无伤。


Three of them had their heads broken by blows from Boxer’s hoofs; another was gored in the belly by a cow’s horn; another had his trousers nearly torn off by Jessie and Bluebell.
有三个人被拳击手的蹄子踢得头破血流，还有个人被牛角划破肚皮，洁西和蓝铃也几乎把一个人的裤子咬成碎片。


And when the nine dogs of Napoleon’s own bodyguard, whom he had instructed to make a detour under cover of the hedge, suddenly appeared on the men’s flank, baying ferociously, panic overtook them.
拿破仑命令护卫自己的九条狗以篱笆作掩护，出其不意地绕到人类的两侧去，再突然现身疯狂吠叫，这引起人类一阵恐慌。


They saw that they were in danger of being surrounded.
他们发现自己被包围了。


Frederick shouted to his men to get out while the going was good, and the next moment the cowardly enemy was running for dear life.
腓特烈要手下见好就收，于是，这群懦弱的敌人为了保住小命转身便逃。


The animals chased them right down to the bottom of the field, and got in some last kicks at them as they forced their way through the thorn hedge.
动物一路追到农田另一端，最后，还在人类钻过充满荆棘的篱笆时补上几脚。


They had won, but they were weary and bleeding.
动物赢了但疲惫不堪、血流不止。


Slowly they began to limp back towards the farm.
大家一拐一拐地缓步回到农庄。


The sight of their dead comrades stretched upon the grass moved some of them to tears.
看到死去的同志僵直地倒在草地上，有些动物不禁哭了出来。


And for a little while they halted in sorrowful silence at the place where the windmill had once stood.
动物们在风车曾经矗立之处停了一段时间，静默无语、内心哀戚。


Yes, it was gone; almost the last trace of their labour was gone!
没错，风车不见了，几乎是一丝辛勤搭建的痕迹都没留下！


Even the foundations were partially destroyed.
地基也有部分毁损。


And in rebuilding it they could not this time, as before, make use of the fallen stones.
如果要重建，他们更没办法像上次那样直接使用垮下来的石头。


This time the stones had vanished too.
这次连石头也全数无影无踪。


The force of the explosion had flung them to distances of hundreds of yards.
爆炸的威力把石头炸飞到几百公尺外。


It was as though the windmill had never been.
现场就好像从来没有建造过风车一般。


As they approached the farm Squealer, who had unaccountably been absent during the fighting, came skipping towards them, whisking his tail and beaming with satisfaction.
当大家走近农庄时，在战争中无故缺席的尖叫者终于现身，在大家面前跳来蹦去、甩动尾巴且一脸满意。


And the animals heard, from the direction of the farm buildings, the solemn booming of a gun.
接着，动物们听到从仓舍那边传来一声肃穆的枪响。


“What is that gun firing for?” said Boxer.
拳击手问：“为什么要鸣枪？”


“To celebrate our victory!” cried Squealer.
“庆祝胜利！”尖叫者喊道。


“What victory?” said Boxer.
“什么胜利？”拳击手反问。


His knees were bleeding, he had lost a shoe and split his hoof, and a dozen pellets had lodged themselves in his hind leg.
他的膝盖淌血，蹄铁掉了一块，蹄子裂开，十几颗散弹卡在后腿里。


“What victory, comrade? Have we not driven the enemy off our soil — the sacred soil of Animal Farm?”
“同志，什么胜利？我们不是把敌人赶出领土了吗？动物农庄的神圣领土啊？”



“But they have destroyed the windmill. And we had worked on it for two years!”
“但是他们毁掉风车了，那花了我们两年才盖好的！”



“What matter? We will build another windmill. We will build six windmills if we feel like it.
“有什么关系？我们可以再盖一座，想要的话，盖六座也行。




You do not appreciate, comrade, the mighty thing that we have done.
同志，你没意识到我们做了件大事。


The enemy was in occupation of this very ground that we stand upon.
敌人一度占据我们现在所站的这块土地。


And now — thanks to the leadership of Comrade Napoleon — we have won every inch of it back again!”
但是多亏拿破仑同志领导，我们又把它整个拿回来了。”


“Then we have won back what we had before,” said Boxer.
“这样我们就拿回之前属于我们的东西了。”拳击手说。


“That is our victory,” said Squealer.
“这是我们的胜利。”尖叫者说。


They limped into the yard.
动物们跛着脚往院子里走，拳击手腿内的散弹造成剧痛，他知道接下来要重新建造风车，而且得从地基盖起，已经开始幻想自己为了这份工作重新振作起来。


The pellets under the skin of Boxer’s leg smarted painfully.


He saw ahead of him the heavy labour of rebuilding the windmill from the foundations, and already in imagination he braced himself for the task.


But for the first time it occurred to him that he was eleven years old and that perhaps his great muscles were not quite what they had once been.
但是，这一次，他首度意识到自己十一岁了，本来强壮的肌肉或许状况大不如前。


But when the animals saw the green flag flying, and heard the gun firing again — seven times it was fired in all — and heard the speech that Napoleon made, congratulating them on their conduct, it did seem to them after all that they had won a great victory.
然而，动物们看着绿色旗帜在空中飘扬，听见火枪一连鸣响七次，拿破仑还发表了一段演说恭喜大家完成壮举。最后，大家真的认为自己打了个大胜仗。

The animals slain in the battle were given a solemn funeral.
动物为战争中丧命的同志举办了隆重的丧礼，运货马车充当灵车，由拳击手与幸运草在前头拉着，拿破仑则走在队伍最前端。


Boxer and Clover pulled the wagon which served as a hearse, and Napoleon himself walked at the head of the procession.


Two whole days were given over to celebrations.


There were songs, speeches, and more firing of the gun, and a special gift of an apple was bestowed on every animal, with two ounces of corn for each bird and three biscuits for each dog.
所有家畜都收到一颗苹果作为特别礼物，家禽则获得两盎司谷物，狗群的奖励是三块狗饼干。


It was announced that the battle would be called the Battle of the Windmill, and that Napoleon had created a new decoration, the Order of the Green Banner, which he had conferred upon himself.
这场战争被称为风车之战，拿破仑还另创一个新勋章，叫做“绿旗勋章”，并颁给自己。


In the general rejoicings the unfortunate affair of the banknotes was forgotten.
狂欢中，不幸的伪钞事件也被淡忘了。


It was a few days later than this that the pigs came upon a case of whisky in the cellars of the farmhouse.
过了几天，猪在农舍酒窖里偶然找到一瓶威士忌，大家占领房子时都没有注意到。


It had been overlooked at the time when the house was first occupied.


That night there came from the farmhouse the sound of loud singing, in which, to everyone’s surprise, the strains of ‘Beasts of England’ were mixed up.
当晚，农舍里传出宏亮的歌声，教动物们讶异的是歌声中竟然混杂着《英格兰之兽》的旋律。


At about half past nine Napoleon, wearing an old bowler hat of Mr. Jones’s, was distinctly seen to emerge from the back door, gallop rapidly round the yard, and disappear indoors again.
九点半左右，大家清楚看见拿破仑戴着琼斯先生的旧圆顶礼帽，从后门跑了出来，飞快地在院子里绕了一圈，又回到屋子里去。


But in the morning a deep silence hung over the farmhouse.
隔天早上，农舍内一片死寂，所有猪都还没起床，快要九点的时候才看到尖叫者露面，他脚步缓慢、面容消沉、眼神黯淡、尾巴软趴趴地垂在身后，怎么看都是一副病恹恹的模样。


Not a pig appeared to be stirring.


It was nearly nine o’clock when Squealer made his appearance, walking slowly and dejectedly, his eyes dull, his tail hanging limply behind him, and with every appearance of being seriously ill.


He called the animals together and told them that he had a terrible piece of news to impart.
他把动物们集合在一起，说要宣布一件坏消息，拿破仑同志已经命在旦夕！


Comrade Napoleon was dying!


A cry of lamentation went up.
一时之间，哀叹声四起。


Straw was laid down outside the doors of the farmhouse, and the animals walked on tiptoe.
农舍大门外铺满稻草，大家踮起脚尖走路，眼带泪水地互问，万一领袖离开他们该如何是好。


With tears in their eyes they asked one another what they should do if their Leader were taken away from them.


A rumour went round that Snowball had after all contrived to introduce poison into Napoleon’s food.
有传言说是雪球成功将毒药放进拿破仑的食物里，到了十一点尖叫者又出来宣布另一则消息，拿破仑临走前，最后要订定一条严令：饮酒者死。


At eleven o’clock Squealer came out to make another announcement.


As his last act upon earth, Comrade Napoleon had pronounced a solemn decree: the drinking of alcohol was to be punished by death.


By the evening, however, Napoleon appeared to be somewhat better, and the following morning Squealer was able to tell them that he was well on the way to recovery.
然而，到了晚上，拿破仑觉得舒服多了。隔天早晨，尖叫者向动物们表示，拿破仑正顺利复原中。



By the evening of that day Napoleon was back at work, and on the next day it was learned that he had instructed Whymper to purchase in Willingdon some booklets on brewing and distilling.
当天晚上，拿破仑回到工作岗位。再到隔天，大家听说他要温普去威灵顿买一些关于酿造和蒸馏的书籍。

A week later Napoleon gave orders that the small paddock beyond the orchard, which it had previously been intended to set aside as a grazing-ground for animals who were past work, was to be ploughed up.
一周之后，拿破仑下令将果园旁的那片小牧场辟为耕地，这里原先是动物退休后养老吃草的地方，现在却说牧草贫竭，得重新播种。


It was given out that the pasture was exhausted and needed re-seeding; but it soon became known that Napoleon intended to sow it with barley.
可是，大家没多久便发现，其实拿破仑打算种大麦。


About this time there occurred a strange incident which hardly anyone was able to understand.
差不多也是这个时候，农庄内发生了一件让所有动物不解的怪事。


One night at about twelve o’clock there was a loud crash in the yard, and the animals rushed out of their stalls.
有天半夜，院子里砰的一声大响，动物们冲出厩棚。


It was a moonlit night.


At the foot of the end wall of the big barn, where the Seven Commandments were written, there lay a ladder broken in two pieces.
在明月高挂的夜里，他们看到谷仓写着七诫的那面墙墙脚下有一把断成两半的梯子，尖叫者趴在梯子旁边，一时回不了神，手边还有一盏灯、一支油漆刷和一桶打翻了的白漆。


Squealer, temporarily stunned, was sprawling beside it, and near at hand there lay a lantern, a paint-brush, and an overturned pot of white paint.


The dogs immediately made a ring round Squealer, and escorted him back to the farmhouse as soon as he was able to walk.
狗群旋即围在尖叫者身旁，等他能走路后便护送他回到农舍。


None of the animals could form any idea as to what this meant, except old Benjamin, who nodded his muzzle with a knowing air, and seemed to understand, but would say nothing.
所有动物都搞不懂这是什么情形，只有老班杰明点着驴嘴，一副了然于心但不愿多加评论的样子。


But a few days later Muriel, reading over the Seven Commandments to herself, noticed that there was yet another of them which the animals had remembered wrong.
几天后，穆里儿自个儿念着七诫，发现大家又记错其中一诫了。


They had thought the Fifth Commandment was “No animal shall drink alcohol,” but there were two words that they had forgotten.
他们以为第五诫是“不可饮酒”。


Actually the Commandment read: “No animal shall drink alcohol TO EXCESS.”
但却忘了另外两个字，真正的诫律是：“不可饮酒过量”。

