Chapter 6
第六章


All that year the animals worked like slaves.
那一整年里，动物们如奴隶般工作。


But they were happy in their work; they grudged no effort or sacrifice, well aware that everything that they did was for the benefit of themselves and those of their kind who would come after them, and not for a pack of idle, thieving human beings.
但他们乐在其中，不遗余力也不吝牺牲。他们很清楚这一切为的不是会偷走成果的怠惰人类，而是自己及后代子孙。


Throughout the spring and summer they worked a sixty-hour week, and in August Napoleon announced that there would be work on Sunday afternoons as well.
春夏两季，动物们每周工作六十小时，到了八月，拿破仑宣布星期天下午也要工作。


This work was strictly voluntary, but any animal who absented himself from it would have his rations reduced by half.
虽采完全志愿制，但不参加的动物食物配给就会减半。


Even so, it was found necessary to leave certain tasks undone.
即使到了这种地步，有些差事仍无暇顾及。


The harvest was a little less successful than in the previous year, and two fields which should have been sown with roots in the early summer were not sown because the ploughing had not been completed early enough.
收成不如去年丰硕，有两块地本来在初夏时分就该种植根茎作物，却因没有早点犁好而作罢。


It was possible to foresee that the coming winter would be a hard one.
由此可想见，接下来的冬天将会很难熬。


The windmill presented unexpected difficulties.
建造风车的工程遇上意想不到的困难。


There was a good quarry of limestone on the farm, and plenty of sand and cement had been found in one of the outhouses, so that all the materials for building were at hand.
农庄内有座藏量丰富的石灰岩矿场，动物们还在一间仓库里找到足够的泥沙，建造风车所需材料一应俱全。


But the problem the animals could not at first solve was how to break up the stone into pieces of suitable size.
然而，动物们首先面临不知如何将石头分割成适当大小的问题。


There seemed no way of doing this except with picks and crowbars, which no animal could use, because no animal could stand on his hind legs.
这工作要用到十字镐和铁橇，但大家没办法以后腿站立，也就无法使用这两样工具。


Only after weeks of vain effort did the right idea occur to somebody-namely, to utilise the force of gravity.
几个星期徒劳无功之后，有只动物想到了个好主意，那就是善用重力。


Huge boulders, far too big to be used as they were, were lying all over the bed of the quarry.
无法直接取用的大石头全摆在石灰岩矿场上。


The animals lashed ropes round these, and then all together, cows, horses, sheep, any animal that could lay hold of the rope — even the pigs sometimes joined in at critical moments — they dragged them with desperate slowness up the slope to the top of the quarry, where they were toppled over the edge, to shatter to pieces below.
动物们拿绳子绑住，接着，牛、马、羊等能够拉绳的动物同心协力，必要的时候连猪也得加入，以极为缓慢的速度将石头往矿场斜坡上拉，再从坡顶把石头推下，将它摔成碎片。



Transporting the stone when it was once broken was comparatively simple.
相较之下，搬运碎石比较轻松。


The horses carried it off in cart-loads, the sheep dragged single blocks, even Muriel and Benjamin yoked themselves into an old governess-cart and did their share.
马一车车拉，羊一块块叼，就连穆里儿和班杰明也拖着老旧的双轮马车，运送自己负责的那一份。


By late summer a sufficient store of stone had accumulated, and then the building began, under the superintendence of the pigs.
夏天接近尾声时，动物们收集好足够的石头，建造工程旋即在猪群监督下展开。


But it was a slow, laborious process.
不过，准备过程既缓慢又吃力。


Frequently it took a whole day of exhausting effort to drag a single boulder to the top of the quarry, and sometimes when it was pushed over the edge it failed to break.
光把一块石头拉到矿场斜坡上往往就得耗掉一整天的精力，而且石头推下来以后，有时还不见得碎裂。


Nothing could have been achieved without Boxer, whose strength seemed equal to that of all the rest of the animals put together.
此外，倘若少了拳击手，什么活儿都完成不了，他的气力可比其他动物的总合。


When the boulder began to slip and the animals cried out in despair at finding themselves dragged down the hill, it was always Boxer who strained himself against the rope and brought the boulder to a stop.
当石头下滑，连带将大家往下拉时，其他动物绝望地呐喊，而拳击手总会拉紧绳子，稳住下滑的石头。


To see him toiling up the slope inch by inch, his breath coming fast, the tips of his hoofs clawing at the ground, and his great sides matted with sweat, filled everyone with admiration.
看到拳击手在坡道上艰辛而缓慢地移动，气喘吁吁，蹄子紧抓地面，全身满是汗水，所有动物莫不敬佩。


Clover warned him sometimes to be careful not to overstrain himself, but Boxer would never listen to her.
幸运草有时会提醒他，不要把自己逼得太紧，但他老是不以为意。


His two slogans, “I will work harder” and “Napoleon is always right,” seemed to him a sufficient answer to all problems.
对他来说，“我要更努力”以及“拿破仑永远是对的”这两句口号足以解决所有问题。


He had made arrangements with the cockerel to call him three-quarters of an hour earlier in the mornings instead of half an hour.
他原本和小公鸡说好，要他每天早半小时叫他起床，现在变成提前四十五分钟。


And in his spare moments, of which there were not many nowadays, he would go alone to the quarry, collect a load of broken stone, and drag it down to the site of the windmill unassisted.
尽管空闲时间不多，但是只要有机会，他就自个儿到矿场，收集一车碎石再拉到风车工地去，全程不靠其他动物帮忙。


The animals were not badly off throughout that summer, in spite of the hardness of their work.
虽说工作辛苦，动物们也不是整个夏天都过着水深火热的生活。


If they had no more food than they had had in Jones’s day, at least they did not have less.
毕竟，就算他们的食物没有多过琼斯时代，至少不比当时差。


The advantage of only having to feed themselves, and not having to support five extravagant human beings as well, was so great that it would have taken a lot of failures to outweigh it.
只需喂饱自己，不用满足五个奢侈人类，这是很大的优势，失策不够多还不至于产生影响。


And in many ways the animal method of doing things was more efficient and saved labour.
再说，从许多角度来看，动物做事情的方式更省时省力。


Such jobs as weeding, for instance, could be done with a thoroughness impossible to human beings.
举例而言，除草之类的工作让动物来做能比人类更为彻底。


And again, since no animal now stole, it was unnecessary to fence off pasture from arable land, which saved a lot of labour on the upkeep of hedges and gates.
再说动物们现在不会偷吃，所以没必要把牧场与耕地隔开，也因此不用维修篱笆和栅门，省下许多力气。


Nevertheless, as the summer wore on, various unforeseen shortages began to make them selves felt.
然而，夏天一天天过去，各种料想不到的短缺逐一浮现。


There was need of paraffin oil, nails, string, dog biscuits, and iron for the horses’ shoes, none of which could be produced on the farm.
煤油、钉子、绳子、狗饼干以及铸造马蹄铁所需的原料，这些物资农庄都无法生产。


Later there would also be need for seeds and artificial manures, besides various tools and, finally, the machinery for the windmill.
虽然有各种不同的工具，而且风车将带来机械化，但是种子及化肥也将面临短缺。


How these were to be procured, no one was able to imagine.
对于要如何取得这些物资，动物们束手无策。


One Sunday morning, when the animals assembled to receive their orders, Napoleon announced that he had decided upon a new policy.
星期天早上，动物们集合接受工作指派，拿破仑宣布，他制定了一项新政策。


From now onwards Animal Farm would engage in trade with the neighbouring farms: not, of course, for any commercial purpose, but simply in order to obtain certain materials which were urgently necessary.
从今以后，动物农庄要与邻近农庄进行贸易，当然不是以商业买卖为目的，纯粹是为了取得一些迫切需要的物资。


The needs of the windmill must override everything else, he said.
他表示，没有什么比满足建造风车所需更为重要。


He was therefore making arrangements to sell a stack of hay and part of the current year’s wheat crop, and later on, if more money were needed, it would have to be made up by the sale of eggs, for which there was always a market in Willingdon.
因此，拿破仑准备要卖一批干草以及一部分今年收割的小麦，之后如果需要更多钱，那么就得卖蛋，这种生意在威灵顿不怕没买家。


The hens, said Napoleon, should welcome this sacrifice as their own special contribution towards the building of the windmill.
拿破仑说，这是母鸡对于建造风车的特殊贡献，理当欣然同意。


Once again the animals were conscious of a vague uneasiness.
这一次，动物们又隐约感到不妥。


Never to have any dealings with human beings, never to engage in trade, never to make use of money — had not these been among the earliest resolutions passed at that first triumphant Meeting after Jones was expelled?
不准和人类从事交易行为，不准做买卖、不准碰钱，这不是最初的决议吗？早在成功赶走琼斯后的第一次聚会中便拍板定案。


All the animals remembered passing such resolutions: or at least they thought that they remembered it.
所有动物都记得当初通过了这些决议，或者说，至少他们认为这件事情发生过。


The four young pigs who had protested when Napoleon abolished the Meetings raised their voices timidly, but they were promptly silenced by a tremendous growling from the dogs.
拿破仑废除聚会时曾出言反对的那四头年轻肉猪怯怯地提出异议，但马上因为狗狺狺咆哮而住口。


Then, as usual, the sheep broke into “Four legs good, two legs bad!” and the momentary awkwardness was smoothed over.
接着，羊群如往常一样又突然大喊：“四足善，双足恶！”使当时的尴尬气氛随之消散。


Finally Napoleon raised his trotter for silence and announced that he had already made all the arrangements.
最后，拿破仑举起前蹄示意安静，并宣布他已经安排妥当。


There would be no need for any of the animals to come in contact with human beings, which would clearly be most undesirable.
动物们不用违背自己的心意与人类接触。


He intended to take the whole burden upon his own shoulders.
他会扛下这份重担。


A Mr. Whymper, a solicitor living in Willingdon, had agreed to act as intermediary between Animal Farm and the outside world, and would visit the farm every Monday morning to receive his instructions.
而且住在威灵顿的温普律师同意当动物农庄与外界之间的往来桥梁，每星期一早上会到农庄接受指示。


Napoleon ended his speech with his usual cry of “Long live Animal Farm!” and after the singing of ‘Beasts of England’ the animals were dismissed.
语毕，拿破仑照例大喊：“动物农庄万岁！”并在唱完《英格兰之兽》后宣告散会。


Afterwards Squealer made a round of the farm and set the animals’ minds at rest.
会后，尖叫者整座农庄走了一回，安抚所有动物。


He assured them that the resolution against engaging in trade and using money had never been passed, or even suggested.
他向动物们保证，当初并没有通过禁止买卖、不得用钱的决议，甚至连提都没提过。


It was pure imagination, probably traceable in the beginning to lies circulated by Snowball.
这完全是凭空想像，说不定是雪球造的谣。


A few animals still felt faintly doubtful, but Squealer asked them shrewdly, “Are you certain that this is not something that you have dreamed, comrades?
虽然有些动物仍存一丝疑惑，但尖叫者狡猾地问道：“同志们，你们确定不是作梦梦到的吗？


Have you any record of such a resolution?
你们将决议记录下来了吗？


Is it written down anywhere?”
决议白纸黑字写在什么地方了吗？”


And since it was certainly true that nothing of the kind existed in writing, the animals were satisfied that they had been mistaken.
因为这些决议的确没有留下文字纪录，所以动物们确信是自己记错了。


Every Monday Mr. Whymper visited the farm as had been arranged.
每星期一，温普先生都照约定前来农庄。


He was a sly-looking little man with side whiskers, a solicitor in a very small way of business, but sharp enough to have realised earlier than anyone else that Animal Farm would need a broker and that the commissions would be worth having.
他身材矮小，脸上蓄着落腮胡，看起来老奸巨猾。身为律师，温普主要经手极小规模业务，但敏锐的直觉让他比其他人更早料想到动物农庄需要一名中间人，而且这工作将带来丰厚的佣金。


The animals watched his coming and going with a kind of dread, and avoided him as much as possible.
动物们看着他来来去去，心里很是惧怕，无不尽可能避开他。


Nevertheless, the sight of Napoleon, on all fours, delivering orders to Whymper, who stood on two legs, roused their pride and partly reconciled them to the new arrangement.
不过，看着四脚站立的拿破仑对两脚站立的温普发号施令，令大家感到骄傲，也就多少对新政策释怀了。


Their relations with the human race were now not quite the same as they had been before.
现在他们跟人类的关系和以前大相迳庭。


The human beings did not hate Animal Farm any less now that it was prospering; indeed, they hated it more than ever.
眼见动物农庄逐渐繁荣兴盛，人类心头恨意未曾稍减，事实上还更甚以往。


Every human being held it as an article of faith that the farm would go bankrupt sooner or later, and, above all, that the windmill would be a failure.
每个人都相信动物农庄迟早会破产，而且风车工程会以失败告终。


They would meet in the public-houses and prove to one another by means of diagrams that the windmill was bound to fall down, or that if it did stand up, then that it would never work.
人们常常在酒吧碰头，以图表向彼此证明风车会垮掉，就算真的建好也没办法运作。


And yet, against their will, they had developed a certain respect for the efficiency with which the animals were managing their own affairs.
尽管人类内心心不甘情不愿，但还是得承认动物们管理事务的效率令人佩服，这带来一些效应。


One symptom of this was that they had begun to call Animal Farm by its proper name and ceased to pretend that it was called the Manor Farm.
其中之一就是人类不再假装农庄的名称叫曼诺，而改采动物农庄这个较为恰当的字眼。


They had also dropped their championship of Jones, who had given up hope of getting his farm back and gone to live in another part of the county.
他们也不再支持琼斯，琼斯则已放弃夺回农庄，搬到威灵顿其他地方去了。


Except through Whymper, there was as yet no contact between Animal Farm and the outside world, but there were constant rumours that Napoleon was about to enter into a definite business agreement either with Mr. Pilkington of Foxwood or with Mr. Frederick of Pinchfield — but never, it was noticed, with both simultaneously.
除了温普先生，动物农庄与外界没有任何联系，但有传言说，拿破仑准备从狐林农庄的皮金顿先生和狭地农庄的腓特烈先生之间做选择，签订具体贸易协定，但绝不会同时和这两人签约。


It was about this time that the pigs suddenly moved into the farmhouse and took up their residence there.
大概也是这个时候，猪群突然搬进农舍里住了下来。


Again the animals seemed to remember that a resolution against this had been passed in the early days, and again Squealer was able to convince them that this was not the case.
动物们再次想起，以前曾经决议禁止这种作法，而尖叫者又再次让他们相信事实不然。


It was absolutely necessary, he said, that the pigs, who were the brains of the farm, should have a quiet place to work in.
他表示，猪负责筹划农庄大小事，绝对需要一个安静的工作场所。


It was also more suited to the dignity of the Leader (for of late he had taken to speaking of Napoleon under the title of “Leader”) to live in a house than in a mere sty.
再说，和猪圈比起来，屋子和尊贵的领袖（最近只要提到拿破仑，他就会加上领袖这个称号）比较搭调。


Nevertheless, some of the animals were disturbed when they heard that the pigs not only took their meals in the kitchen and used the drawing-room as a recreation room, but also slept in the beds.
不过，一听说猪不但在厨房用餐、把客厅当娱乐室，还睡在床上，有些动物感到很不快。


Boxer passed it off as usual with “Napoleon is always right!”, but Clover, who thought she remembered a definite ruling against beds, went to the end of the barn and tried to puzzle out the Seven Commandments which were inscribed there.
拳击手一如往常以“拿破仑永远是对的”这句话带过，但幸运草记得有明确规定禁止睡在床上，于是她跑到谷仓一角，试图从写在墙上的七诫看出端倪。


Finding herself unable to read more than individual letters, she fetched Muriel.
幸运草只读得懂个别字母，所以找来穆里儿。


“Muriel,” she said, “read me the Fourth Commandment.
“穆里儿，”幸运草说：“念第四诫给我听。


Does it not say something about never sleeping in a bed?”
那一诫是不是说不能睡在床上？”


With some difficulty Muriel spelt it out.
穆里儿费了些劲才将第四诫拼读出来。


“It says, ‘No animal shall sleep in a bed with sheets,”’ she announced finally.
“上面是写‘不可睡于有床单的床上’。”她最后这么说。


Curiously enough, Clover had not remembered that the Fourth Commandment mentioned sheets; but as it was there on the wall, it must have done so.
奇怪的是，幸运草完全不记得第四诫提到了床单，但是既然上面这样写，一定就是如此。


And Squealer, who happened to be passing at this moment, attended by two or three dogs, was able to put the whole matter in its proper perspective.
此时，尖叫者在两三条狗护卫下碰巧经过谷仓，于是特别厘清应该如何看待这整件事。


“You have heard then, comrades,” he said, “that we pigs now sleep in the beds of the farmhouse?
“同志们，你们已经听说，”他说道：“我们猪群现在睡在农舍床上，对吧？


And why not?
这有何不可？


You did not suppose, surely, that there was ever a ruling against beds?
你们该不会以为有什么不准睡在床上的诫律吧？


A bed merely means a place to sleep in.
床不过是一个睡觉的地方。


A pile of straw in a stall is a bed, properly regarded.
正确来说，厩棚里的稻草堆也是床。


The rule was against sheets, which are a human invention.
诫律禁止的是床单，这是人类发明的东西。


We have removed the sheets from the farmhouse beds, and sleep between blankets.
我们已经撤掉农舍里每一张床的床单，只睡在毯子里。


And very comfortable beds they are too!
这样也够舒适的了！


But not more comfortable than we need, I can tell you, comrades, with all the brainwork we have to do nowadays.
但是，同志们，我可以跟你们说，和我们目前所进行的脑力工作相比，这种舒适度只是刚好而已。


You would not rob us of our repose, would you, comrades?
同志们，你们不会想让我们不得安歇吧？


You would not have us too tired to carry out our duties?
你们不会想让我们累到不能工作吧？


Surely none of you wishes to see Jones back?”
你们都不希望看到琼斯回来，对吧？”


The animals reassured him on this point immediately, and no more was said about the pigs sleeping in the farmhouse beds.
动物们再次保证绝无此意，也不再对猪睡在农舍床上多说什么。


And when, some days afterwards, it was announced that from now on the pigs would get up an hour later in the mornings than the other animals, no complaint was made about that either.
过了几天，他们得知猪今后会晚一个小时起床，但也没出言抱怨。


By the autumn the animals were tired but happy.
到了秋天，动物们虽疲惫却开心。


They had had a hard year, and after the sale of part of the hay and corn, the stores of food for the winter were none too plentiful, but the windmill compensated for everything.
他们这一年过得很辛苦，卖掉部分干草和谷物后，过冬用的贮备粮食并不十分充足。


It was almost half built now.
然而，风车建造计划让这一切都值得了。


After the harvest there was a stretch of clear dry weather, and the animals toiled harder than ever, thinking it well worth while to plod to and fro all day with blocks of stone if by doing so they could raise the walls another foot.
目前，风车盖到一半，在秋收之后那段晴朗干燥的日子里，动物们吃力地搬运一块块石头，干的活比以往更重，但他们认为，只要这么做能让风车边墙多个三十公分，那就够了。


Boxer would even come out at nights and work for an hour or two on his own by the light of the harvest moon.
拳击手连晚上都待在外头，在仲秋满月的光芒照耀下，独力工作一两个小时。


In their spare moments the animals would walk round and round the half-finished mill, admiring the strength and perpendicularity of its walls and marvelling that they should ever have been able to build anything so imposing.
闲暇之余，动物们一圈圈绕着盖到一半的风车散步，赞佩边墙坚固高耸、惊叹自己竟然能盖出如此雄伟的建筑物。


Only old Benjamin refused to grow enthusiastic about the windmill, though, as usual, he would utter nothing beyond the cryptic remark that donkeys live a long time.
只有老班杰明对风车冷眼看待，他还是老样子，常常说驴子活很久之类令人费解的话。


November came, with raging south-west winds.
进入十一月，西南风呼啸。


Building had to stop because it was now too wet to mix the cement.
气候潮湿影响水泥拌制，建造工程因而延宕。


Finally there came a night when the gale was so violent that the farm buildings rocked on their foundations and several tiles were blown off the roof of the barn.
一天夜里，暴风来袭，农庄仓舍被吹得摇摇晃晃，谷仓屋顶还有几块瓦片飞走了。


The hens woke up squawking with terror because they had all dreamed simultaneously of hearing a gun go off in the distance.
母鸡们听到远方一声枪响，不约而同醒过来，惊慌地咕咕叫。


In the morning the animals came out of their stalls to find that the flagstaff had been blown down and an elm tree at the foot of the orchard had been plucked up like a radish.
隔天早上，动物们走出厩棚，发现旗杆吹断了，果园一隅还有几棵榆树像萝卜般被连根拔起。


They had just noticed this when a cry of despair broke from every animal’s throat.
接着，动物们把注意力转移到另一个地方，纷纷发出绝望的鸣叫。


A terrible sight had met their eyes.
惨不忍赌的景象映入眼帘。


The windmill was in ruins.
风车垮掉了。


With one accord they dashed down to the spot.
动物们一窝蜂往工地跑。


Napoleon, who seldom moved out of a walk, raced ahead of them all.
一向缓步徐行的拿破仑冲在最前面。


Yes, there it lay, the fruit of all their struggles, levelled to its foundations, the stones they had broken and carried so laboriously scattered all around.
没错，全塌了。 大家付出血汗的成果被夷为平地，那些摔碎后再费力运来的石头散落四处。

Unable at first to speak, they stood gazing mournfully at the litter of fallen stone.
动物们起先说不出话来，只是站在原地、悲伤地盯着地上的乱石。


Napoleon paced to and fro in silence, occasionally snuffing at the ground.
拿破仑一语不发地来回走动，时而嗅闻地面。


His tail had grown rigid and twitched sharply from side to side, a sign in him of intense mental activity.
他僵直的尾巴迅速地左右甩动，这代表他正在沉思。


Suddenly he halted as though his mind were made up.
突然间，他停下来，仿佛已厘清头绪。


“Comrades,” he said quietly, “do you know who is responsible for this?
“同志们，”他平静地说：“你们知道这是谁干的好事吗？


Do you know the enemy who has come in the night and overthrown our windmill?
你们知道是哪个敌人晚上到这里破坏风车吗？


SNOWBALL!” he suddenly roared in a voice of thunder. “Snowball has done this thing!
是雪球！” 拿破仑忽然大叫，声音像雷一样响亮：“这是雪球干的！




In sheer malignity, thinking to set back our plans and avenge himself for his ignominious expulsion, this traitor has crept here under cover of night and destroyed our work of nearly a year.
他就是不安好心眼，想破坏我们的计划，报自己被狼狈赶走之仇。这个叛徒在夜色掩护下潜进这里，摧毁我们近一年的成果。


Comrades, here and now I pronounce the death sentence upon Snowball. 
同志们，我在此时此地宣判雪球死刑。

‘Animal Hero, Second Class,’ and half a bushel of apples to any animal who brings him to justice.
将雪球就地正法的动物可获得‘动物英雄二等勋章’以及半蒲式耳苹果。


A full bushel to anyone who captures him alive!”
活捉他的可获得一蒲式耳苹果！”


The animals were shocked beyond measure to learn that even Snowball could be guilty of such an action.
一听到是雪球犯下的恶行，动物们十分震惊，愤慨之声不绝于耳，各个都想尽办法要在雪球回来的时候抓住他。


There was a cry of indignation, and everyone began thinking out ways of catching Snowball if he should ever come back.
没多久，山丘附近的草地上发现猪的足迹，虽然蹄印只有几公尺，但显然是往篱笆破洞的方向去，拿破仑使劲闻着，并对大家说这是雪球所留，他认为雪球大概是从狐林农庄那个方向过来的。


Almost immediately the footprints of a pig were discovered in the grass at a little distance from the knoll.


They could only be traced for a few yards, but appeared to lead to a hole in the hedge.


Napoleon snuffed deeply at them and pronounced them to be Snowball’s.


He gave it as his opinion that Snowball had probably come from the direction of Foxwood Farm.


“No more delays, comrades!” cried Napoleon when the footprints had been examined. “There is work to be done.
“同志们，不要再拖延了！”调查完足迹以后，拿破仑喊道：“我们还有事情得做。

This very morning we begin rebuilding the windmill, and we will build all through the winter, rain or shine.
从今天早上起，我们要重建风车，冬天、雨天、艳阳天都不休息。


We will teach this miserable traitor that he cannot undo our work so easily.
我们要给这叛徒一个教训，让他知道，要破坏我们的计划没那么容易。


Remember, comrades, there must be no alteration in our plans: they shall be carried out to the day.
同志们，记住，我们的计划绝不改变，而且要即刻展开。


Forward, comrades!
同志们，前进！


Long live the windmill!
风车万岁！


Long live Animal Farm!”
动物农庄万岁！”


