Chapter 7
第七章


It was a bitter winter.
这年冬天分外难熬。


The stormy weather was followed by sleet and snow, and then by a hard frost which did not break till well into February.
尾随暴风来的是冻雨以及大雪。 接着，寒霜冻结大地，一直到二月才逐渐溶化。


The animals carried on as best they could with the rebuilding of the windmill, well knowing that the outside world was watching them and that the envious human beings would rejoice and triumph if the mill were not finished on time.
动物们使尽全力重建风车，因为他们很清楚外界都在看好戏，如果不能如期完工，妒火中烧的人类肯定得意叫好。


Out of spite, the human beings pretended not to believe that it was Snowball who had destroyer the windmill: they said that it had fallen down because the walls were too thin.
坏心肠的人类压根儿不相信雪球是凶手的说法，他们认为墙太薄弱才是主因。


The animals knew that this was not the case.Still, it had been decided to build the walls three feet thick this time instead of eighteen inches as before, which meant collecting much larger quantities of stone.
尽管动物们知道并非如此，但仍决定这次墙壁厚度要从先前的四十五公分增加到一公尺，这也意味着他们得采集更多石头。


For a long time the quarry was full of snowdrifts and nothing could be done.
矿场积雪好一段时间了，大家什么事情都没法做。


Some progress was made in the dry frosty weather that followed, but it was cruel work, and the animals could not feel so hopeful about it as they had felt before.
接下来虽然仍有寒霜，但气候较为干燥，动物们趁机工作，处境十分艰辛，使得他们不如往常般乐观。


They were always cold, and usually hungry as well.Only Boxer and Clover never lost heart.
饥寒交迫之下，只有拳击手和幸运草没有失去信心。



Squealer made excellent speeches on the joy of service and the dignity of labour, but the other animals found more inspiration in Boxer’s strength and his never-failing cry of “I will work harder!”
尖叫者凭着他那三寸不烂之舌，鼓吹为农庄效力之喜悦与付出劳力之尊贵。然而，真正激励其他动物的是拳击手的气力，还有他一声声“我要更努力！”的叫喊，他的语气永远那么坚定。


In January food fell short.
一月，食物短缺。


The corn ration was drastically reduced, and it was announced that an extra potato ration would be issued to make up for it.


Then it was discovered that the greater part of the potato crop had been frosted in the clamps, which had not been covered thickly enough.
谷物配给大幅缩水，原本说要以马铃薯替代。后来发现大部分马铃薯因当初种得不够深而受到霜害。


The potatoes had become soft and discoloured, and only a few were edible.
这些马铃薯既软又烂且颜色异常，只有少部分能食用。


For days at a time the animals had nothing to eat but chaff and mangels.
结果动物们常常一连好几天只吃粗糠和甜菜。


Starvation seemed to stare them in the face.
饥荒近在眼前。


It was vitally necessary to conceal this fact from the outside world.


Emboldened by the collapse of the windmill, the human beings were inventing fresh lies about Animal Farm.
这件事情绝对不能让外界知道。风车崩毁壮了人类的胆，有关动物农庄的谣言又起。


Once again it was being put about that all the animals were dying of famine and disease, and that they were continually fighting among themselves and had resorted to cannibalism and infanticide.
再度有人声称农庄里的动物即将饿死、病死，不但互相攻击，还吃食同类、残杀幼兽。


Napoleon was well aware of the bad results that might follow if the real facts of the food situation were known, and he decided to make use of Mr. Whymper to spread a contrary impression.
拿破仑深知缺粮危机被人类知道会有什么后果，于是决定利用温普先生散布相反的消息。


Hitherto the animals had had little or no contact with Whymper on his weekly visits: now, however, a few selected animals, mostly sheep, were instructed to remark casually in his hearing that rations had been increased.
如今，温普先生仍旧每周造访农庄一次，但动物们从不和他往来，就算有，次数也屈指可数。现在，拿破仑挑了一些动物，其中大多是绵羊，他们在温普身边故作若无其事地谈话，让他以为农庄的食物配给增加了。


In addition, Napoleon ordered the almost empty bins in the store-shed to be filled nearly to the brim with sand, which was then covered up with what remained of the grain and meal.
事实上，贮粮库的贮粮桶几乎见底，拿破仑于是要动物用沙填满，再把剩余的谷物、玉米粉铺在上面。


On some suitable pretext Whymper was led through the store-shed and allowed to catch a glimpse of the bins.
接着编了套适当的说词带温普到贮粮库晃一圈，更让他看了几眼贮粮桶。


He was deceived, and continued to report to the outside world that there was no food shortage on Animal Farm.
温普因而被蒙骗，继续向外界表示动物农庄没有缺粮危机。


Nevertheless, towards the end of January it became obvious that it would be necessary to procure some more grain from somewhere.
然而，到了一月底，从他处取得更多谷物已是势在必行。


In these days Napoleon rarely appeared in public, but spent all his time in the farmhouse, which was guarded at each door by fierce-looking dogs.
这些日子里，拿破仑甚少露面，几乎只待在农舍里，每道门皆有外表凶猛的大狗看守。


When he did emerge, it was in a ceremonial manner, with an escort of six dogs who closely surrounded him and growled if anyone came too near.
拿破仑每次现身都很隆重，像是举行典礼一般，六条狗护卫左右，谁靠得太近就吼叫。


Frequently he did not even appear on Sunday mornings, but issued his orders through one of the other pigs, usually Squealer.
星期天早晨集会也经常不见拿破仑身影，命令总交由其他猪宣布，通常是尖叫者代劳。


One Sunday morning Squealer announced that the hens, who had just come in to lay again, must surrender their eggs.
某个星期天早晨，尖叫者要刚下完蛋的母鸡交出鸡蛋。


Napoleon had accepted, through Whymper, a contract for four hundred eggs a week.
在温普仲介之下，拿破仑接受了一份每周提供四百颗蛋的合约。


The price of these would pay for enough grain and meal to keep the farm going till summer came on and conditions were easier.
买卖所得将用来购入足够的谷物，让农庄运作得以撑到夏天，缺粮情势也能缓和下来。


When the hens heard this, they raised a terrible outcry.
母鸡一听闻此事便强烈反对。


They had been warned earlier that this sacrifice might be necessary, but had not believed that it would really happen.
之前就有动物提醒她们或许得做这样的牺牲，但她们从不相信会成真。


They were just getting their clutches ready for the spring sitting, and they protested that to take the eggs away now was murder.
母鸡们此时刚把春天要孵的蛋准备好，所以纷纷抗议说现在把蛋拿走根本就是谋杀。


For the first time since the expulsion of Jones, there was something resembling a rebellion.
自琼斯遭到驱逐以来，这是农庄内首次几近抗争的行动。


Led by three young Black Minorca pullets, the hens made a determined effort to thwart Napoleon’s wishes.
母鸡们在三只年轻的米诺卡黑鸡带领下抵死不从。


Their method was to fly up to the rafters and there lay their eggs, which smashed to pieces on the floor.
她们想到的法子是飞到屋椽上下蛋，让蛋摔破在地上。


Napoleon acted swiftly and ruthlessly.
拿破仑于是展开迅速而无情的反制行动。


He ordered the hens’ rations to be stopped, and decreed that any animal giving so much as a grain of corn to a hen should be punished by death.
他下令停止提供母鸡食物，更扬言处死任何给母鸡粮食的动物，一谷一粟都不行。


The dogs saw to it that these orders were carried out.
此命令由狗负责执行。


For five days the hens held out, then they capitulated and went back to their nesting boxes.
母鸡坚持了五天，最后终于屈服，回到鸡舍。


Nine hens had died in the meantime.
这段时间死了九只鸡。


Their bodies were buried in the orchard, and it was given out that they had died of coccidiosis.
尸体葬在果园内，对外则宣称是死于球虫症。


Whymper heard nothing of this affair, and the eggs were duly delivered, a grocer’s van driving up to the farm once a week to take them away.
这件事情并未传到温普耳里，农庄每周按时交蛋，由食品商的马车载走。


All this while no more had been seen of Snowball.
这阵子皆不见雪球踪影。


He was rumoured to be hiding on one of the neighbouring farms, either Foxwood or Pinchfield.
大家传说他躲在邻近农庄内，不是狐林就是狭地。


Napoleon was by this time on slightly better terms with the other farmers than before.
而拿破仑和其他农人的关系此时也稍有好转。


It happened that there was in the yard a pile of timber which had been stacked there ten years earlier when a beech spinney was cleared.
正巧院子里叠了一堆木材，为十年前清理榉树林所留，这时已经完全风干，温普便建议拿破仑卖掉这些木材。


It was well seasoned, and Whymper had advised Napoleon to sell it; both Mr. Pilkington and Mr. Frederick were anxious to buy it.
皮金顿先生和腓特烈先生争相要收购。


Napoleon was hesitating between the two, unable to make up his mind.
让拿破仑下不了决定。


It was noticed that whenever he seemed on the point of coming to an agreement with Frederick, Snowball was declared to be in hiding at Foxwood, while, when he inclined toward Pilkington, Snowball was said to be at Pinchfield.
大家发现，每当拿破仑打算卖给腓特烈时，就有消息说雪球在狐林农庄，而当他想卖给皮金顿时，狭地农庄就被传作是雪球的落脚处。


Suddenly, early in the spring, an alarming thing was discovered.
早春时分，有件事情让农庄陷入恐慌。


Snowball was secretly frequenting the farm by night!
那就是雪球晚上常常回来！


The animals were so disturbed that they could hardly sleep in their stalls.
厩棚内的动物受到干扰，难以入睡。


Every night, it was said, he came creeping in under cover of darkness and performed all kinds of mischief.
大家说，雪球在暗夜掩护下潜进来，做各种坏事。


He stole the corn, he upset the milk-pails, he broke the eggs, he trampled the seedbeds, he gnawed the bark off the fruit trees.
他偷谷物、打翻牛奶桶、弄破鸡蛋、践踏苗圃还咬掉果树树皮。


Whenever anything went wrong it became usual to attribute it to Snowball.
只要出问题，通常是雪球干的。


If a window was broken or a drain was blocked up, someone was certain to say that Snowball had come in the night and done it, and when the key of the store-shed was lost, the whole farm was convinced that Snowball had thrown it down the well.
如果窗户玻璃破了或者排水系统堵住，就会有动物言之凿凿地说是雪球晚上跑回来了。当贮粮库的钥匙不见时，全庄动物一致认为是雪球把钥匙丢到井里。


Curiously enough, they went on believing this even after the mislaid key was found under a sack of meal.
好笑的是，就算事后在一袋玉米粉底下找回当初放错地方的钥匙，大家还是这么相信。


The cows declared unanimously that Snowball crept into their stalls and milked them in their sleep.
此外，乳牛集体表示，雪球趁她们睡觉的时候偷跑进棚内挤她们的奶。


The rats, which had been troublesome that winter, were also said to be in league with Snowball.
更有甚者，在冬天制造不少麻烦的老鼠成了雪球同伙。


Napoleon decreed that there should be a full investigation into Snowball’s activities.
拿破仑下令清查雪球所有活动。


With his dogs in attendance he set out and made a careful tour of inspection of the farm buildings, the other animals following at a respectful distance.
在狗群随侍下，他动身前往各仓舍，仔仔细细地检查了一番，其他动物跟在后面，恭敬地保持一定距离。


At every few steps Napoleon stopped and snuffed the ground for traces of Snowball’s footsteps, which, he said, he could detect by the smell.
拿破仑每走几步就停下来嗅一嗅，说是雪球如果在地上留下蹄印，他一闻就闻得出来。


He snuffed in every corner, in the barn, in the cow-shed, in the henhouses, in the vegetable garden, and found traces of Snowball almost everywhere.
他嗅遍每个角落，从谷仓、牛棚、鸡舍到菜园，几乎所有地方都发现雪球的踪迹。


He would put his snout to the ground, give several deep sniffs, ad exclaim in a terrible voice, “Snowball! He has been here! I can smell him distinctly!” and at the word “Snowball” all the dogs let out blood-curdling growls and showed their side teeth.
拿破仑将鼻子靠近地面，深深地嗅，然后语气可怖地大叫：“雪球！他来过这里！我闻得清清楚楚！”“雪球”两个字一出口，所有的狗就龇牙咧嘴咆哮不停，动物们听在耳里血液简直立即冻结。



The animals were thoroughly frightened.
大家完全吓坏了。


It seemed to them as though Snowball were some kind of invisible influence, pervading the air about them and menacing them with all kinds of dangers.
对他们来说，雪球仿佛成了某种无形的影响力，渗透进周遭空气中，以各种不同的危险形式构成威胁。


In the evening Squealer called them together, and with an alarmed expression on his face told them that he had some serious news to report.
当天晚上，尖叫者把所有动物集合在一起，面带惊惧地说他有个重要的消息。


“Comrades!” cried Squealer, making little nervous skips, “a most terrible thing has been discovered.

“同志们！”尖叫者一边紧张地跳来蹦去，一边高喊：“我们发现一件最可怕的事情。

Snowball has sold himself to Frederick of Pinchfield Farm, who is even now plotting to attack us and take our farm away from us!
雪球投靠狭地农庄的腓特烈了，现在正计划攻击我们、夺走农庄。


Snowball is to act as his guide when the attack begins.
而且进行攻击时，雪球会当他们的向导。


But there is worse than that.
更糟糕的是，


We had thought that Snowball’s rebellion was caused simply by his vanity and ambition.
我们以为雪球背叛只是因为他爱慕虚荣、野心勃勃。


But we were wrong, comrades.
但我们错了。同志们。


Do you know what the real reason was?
你们知道真正的原因是什么吗？


Snowball was in league with Jones from the very start!
雪球从一开始就和琼斯狼狈为奸！


He was Jones’s secret agent all the time.
他一直是琼斯的密探。


It has all been proved by documents which he left behind him and which we have only just discovered.
我们刚刚发现雪球留下的一些文件，里面就能找到证据。



To my mind this explains a great deal, comrades.
同志们，在我看来，这解释了很多疑点。


Did we not see for ourselves how he attempted — fortunately without success — to get us defeated and destroyed at the Battle of the Cowshed?”
在牛棚之战中，虽然他诡计没有得逞，但我们亲眼看到他是如何想让我们吃败仗的，不是吗？”


The animals were stupefied.
动物们呆若木鸡。


This was a wickedness far outdoing Snowball’s destruction of the windmill.
雪球做这件事情比他破坏风车要可恶得多。


But it was some minutes before they could fully take it in.
但大家花了几分钟才完全接受尖叫者说的话。


They all remembered, or thought they remembered, how they had seen Snowball charging ahead of them at the Battle of the Cowshed, how he had rallied and encouraged them at every turn, and how he had not paused for an instant even when the pellets from Jones’s gun had wounded his back.
动物们记得，或者认为自己记得，雪球在牛棚之战带领大家攻击人类，每波攻势都忙着重整、鼓励大家，即便被琼斯的枪弹射伤了背仍旧毫不退缩。


At first it was a little difficult to see how this fitted in with his being on Jones’s side.
起初，大家很难把雪球这样的举动联想成他是琼斯的手下。


Even Boxer, who seldom asked questions, was puzzled.
就连甚少发问的拳击手也感到困惑。


He lay down, tucked his fore hoofs beneath him, shut his eyes, and with a hard effort managed to formulate his thoughts.
他趴了下来，前脚缩到身体底下，闭上眼费力苦思。


“I do not believe that,” he said. “Snowball fought bravely at the Battle of the Cowshed. I saw him myself. Did we not give him ‘Animal Hero, first Class,’ immediately afterwards?”
“我不相信，”他说：“雪球在牛棚之战表现英勇，这是我亲眼目睹的，我们在战后不是还立即颁给他‘动物英雄一等勋章’吗？”




“That was our mistake, comrade. For we know now — it is all written down in the secret documents that we have found — that in reality he was trying to lure us to our doom.”
“同志，这是我们搞错了，这全记载在我们发现的密件里面，我们现在知道他当时其实是要引诱我们走向灭亡。”




“But he was wounded,” said Boxer. “We all saw him running with blood.”
“但是他受伤了，”拳击手回道：“我们都看到他流着血冲向琼斯。”


“That was part of the arrangement!” cried Squealer. “Jones’s shot only grazed him.
“这是他们的安排！”尖叫者嚷道：“琼斯那一枪只是刚好擦过他的身体。




I could show you this in his own writing, if you were able to read it.
如果你识字的话，我可以给你看雪球的亲笔记录。


The plot was for Snowball, at the critical moment, to give the signal for flight and leave the field to the enemy.
他们的计划是，要雪球在重要时刻逃跑，把农庄留给敌人，而雪球差点得逞了。


And he very nearly succeeded — I will even say, comrades, he WOULD have succeeded if it had not been for our heroic Leader, Comrade Napoleon.
同志们，我甚至得说，要不是我们有英明的领袖拿破仑同志在，他早就得逞了。


Do you not remember how, just at the moment when Jones and his men had got inside the yard, Snowball suddenly turned and fled, and many animals followed him?
琼斯跟他的手下进入院子时，你们记得雪球突然转身逃跑，而且有很多动物跟着他逃离战场吗？


And do you not remember, too, that it was just at that moment, when panic was spreading and all seemed lost, that Comrade Napoleon sprang forward with a cry of ‘Death to Humanity!’ and sank his teeth in Jones’s leg?
另外，当大家陷入恐慌，眼看大势已去的时候，拿破仑同志一跃而出，高喊‘杀死人类！’，并且一口往琼斯的腿咬，这件事大家也不记得了吗？


Surely you remember THAT, comrades?” exclaimed Squealer, frisking from side to side.
同志们，你们都还记得，对吧？”尖叫者跳来蹦去地喊着。


Now when Squealer described the scene so graphically, it seemed to the animals that they did remember it.
尖叫者如此生动地描述当时情景，让动物们以为自己对这一幕留有印象。


At any rate, they remembered that at the critical moment of the battle Snowball had turned to flee.
不管怎么说，他们记得雪球在大战关键时刻确曾掉头就跑。


But Boxer was still a little uneasy.
但是，拳击手依旧有点不服。


“I do not believe that Snowball was a traitor at the beginning,” he said finally. “What he has done since is different.
“我不相信雪球从一开始就是个叛徒，”他最后开口说道：“他之后的所作所为是另一回事。


But I believe that at the Battle of the Cowshed he was a good comrade.”
但在牛棚之战中，雪球是个好同志。”


“Our Leader, Comrade Napoleon,” announced Squealer, speaking very slowly and firmly, “has stated categorically — categorically, comrade — that Snowball was Jones’s agent from the very beginning — yes, and from long before the Rebellion was ever thought of.”
“我们的领袖拿破仑同志很明确地表示，”尖叫者以缓慢而坚定的口吻说道：“同志，他明明白白地说了，雪球从最开始就是琼斯的密探。没错，早在大家兴起抗争这个念头之前就是了。”


“Ah, that is different!” said Boxer. “If Comrade Napoleon says it, it must be right.”
“噢，那就不一样了！”拳击手回道：“如果拿破仑同志这么讲，那一定是对的。”




“That is the true spirit, comrade!” cried Squealer, but it was noticed he cast a very ugly look at Boxer with his little twinkling eyes.
“同志，这样的想法就对了！”尖叫者叫道，大家注意到他闪烁的小眼睛厌恶地瞥了拳击手一下。


He turned to go, then paused and added impressively: “I warn every animal on this farm to keep his eyes very wide open.
接着转身便要离去，却突然又停下来，讲了几句让动物们印象深刻的话：“我想提醒农庄内的每只动物保持警戒。


For we have reason to think that some of Snowball’s secret agents are lurking among us at this moment!”
我们有理由怀疑，雪球的密探此刻正潜伏在我们身边！”


Four days later, in the late afternoon, Napoleon ordered all the animals to assemble in the yard.
四天后，接近傍晚时，拿破仑要所有动物到院子里集合。


When they were all gathered together, Napoleon emerged from the farmhouse, wearing both his medals (for he had recently awarded himself “Animal Hero, First Class”, and “Animal Hero, Second Class”), with his nine huge dogs frisking round him and uttering growls that sent shivers down all the animals’ spines.
等大家到齐后，拿破仑从农舍中走出来，身上佩戴着两面勋章（他最近颁给自己“动物英雄一等勋章”和“动物英雄二等勋章”），手下九条大狗在身边蹦跳还不时吼叫，吓得动物们背脊发抖。


They all cowered silently in their places, seeming to know in advance that some terrible thing was about to happen.
大家安静地缩在自己的位置上，仿佛预感到可怕的事情即将发生。


Napoleon stood sternly surveying his audience; then he uttered a high-pitched whimper.
拿破仑严厉的目光扫视底下的动物，接着尖啸一声。


Immediately the dogs bounded forward, seized four of the pigs by the ear and dragged them, squealing with pain and terror, to Napoleon’s feet.
身边的狗立即跳上前去，一口咬住四只猪的耳朵，不顾他们因疼痛与恐惧而发出的惨叫，把他们拖到拿破仑跟前。


The pigs’ ears were bleeding, the dogs had tasted blood, and for a few moments they appeared to go quite mad.
猪的耳朵流出鲜血，狗尝到血的滋味，顿时更加疯狂。


To the amazement of everybody, three of them flung themselves upon Boxer.
其中三条狗此时往拳击手身上扑过去，让动物们大吃一惊。


Boxer saw them coming and put out his great hoof, caught a dog in mid-air, and pinned him to the ground.
拳击手看到狗扑过来，举起大蹄子一脚将一条还在半空中的狗压到地上。


The dog shrieked for mercy and the other two fled with their tails between their legs.
结果这条狗哀声求饶，其他两条也夹着尾巴逃跑了。


Boxer looked at Napoleon to know whether he should crush the dog to death or let it go.
拳击手看了看拿破仑，想知道自己该踩死这条狗还是放他走。


Napoleon appeared to change countenance, and sharply ordered Boxer to let the dog go, whereat Boxer lifted his hoof, and the dog slunk away, bruised and howling.
最后，他举起蹄子，受了伤的狗便哀叫着逃离了。


Presently the tumult died down.
这时，喧哗声静止。


The four pigs waited, trembling, with guilt written on every line of their countenances.
四头猪浑身颤抖地等待着，脸上满是罪恶感。


Napoleon now called upon them to confess their crimes.
此时，拿破仑要他们承认自己的罪行。


They were the same four pigs as had protested when Napoleon abolished the Sunday Meetings.
其实他们就是当初拿破仑说要废除星期天聚会时出言抗议的那四头猪。


Without any further prompting they confessed that they had been secretly in touch with Snowball ever since his expulsion, that they had collaborated with him in destroying the windmill, and that they had entered into an agreement with him to hand over Animal Farm to Mr. Frederick.
不消进一步逼问，这些猪便坦承和雪球有秘密接触，而且从他被驱逐的那天就开始了。他们一起破坏风车，还协议要将动物农庄送给腓特烈先生。


They added that Snowball had privately admitted to them that he had been Jones’s secret agent for years past.
雪球更私下向他们承认自己当琼斯的密探已经好几年。


When they had finished their confession, the dogs promptly tore their throats out, and in a terrible voice Napoleon demanded whether any other animal had anything to confess.
这四头猪话一说完，马上便被狗咬断喉咙。接着，拿破仑以十分可怕的声音查问，是否有其他动物要坦承什么事情。


The three hens who had been the ringleaders in the attempted rebellion over the eggs now came forward and stated that Snowball had appeared to them in a dream and incited them to disobey Napoleon’s orders.
鸡蛋抗争事件中带头的三只母鸡站了出来，说雪球曾来到她们梦中，要她们违反拿破仑的命令。


They, too, were slaughtered.
结果她们也被杀了。


Then a goose came forward and confessed to having secreted six ears of corn during the last year’s harvest and eaten them in the night.
之后，一只鹅坦承他在去年收成时偷藏了六穗小麦，趁晚上吃掉。


Then a sheep confessed to having urinated in the drinking pool — urged to do this, so she said, by Snowball — and two other sheep confessed to having murdered an old ram, an especially devoted follower of Napoleon, by chasing him round and round a bonfire when he was suffering from a cough.
一头绵羊坦承在饮水池里小便，她说是雪球叫她这么做的。语毕，又有两头绵羊坦承谋杀了一头老公羊，这头公羊是拿破仑的忠实追随者，却在咳嗽咳得厉害的时候被他们追着跑，在火堆旁绕啊绕，最后不幸丧命。


They were all slain on the spot.
这些动物皆被当场处死。


And so the tale of confessions and executions went on, until there was a pile of corpses lying before Napoleon’s feet and the air was heavy with the smell of blood, which had been unknown there since the expulsion of Jones.
还有许多动物也在坦承罪行之后处决。拿破仑跟前尸体堆积如山，空气中弥漫着浓厚的血腥味，这是自从琼斯被驱逐以来就不曾出现过的气味。


When it was all over, the remaining animals, except for the pigs and dogs, crept away in a body.
告解结束后，除了猪和狗以外，其他还活着的动物胆颤心惊地离开院子。


They were shaken and miserable.
他们饱受惊吓、悲痛欲绝。


They did not know which was more shocking — the treachery of the animals who had leagued themselves with Snowball, or the cruel retribution they had just witnessed.
但不知道哪件事情比较震撼—是遭到与雪球狼狈为奸的动物背叛？还是亲眼目睹的残酷惩罚？


In the old days there had often been scenes of bloodshed equally terrible, but it seemed to all of them that it was far worse now that it was happening among themselves.
以前常常有这样血腥的场景，但动物们觉得这一次更糟糕，因为是发生在动物之间。


Since Jones had left the farm, until today, no animal had killed another animal.
自从琼斯离开农庄至今，没有动物杀害过另一只动物。


Not even a rat had been killed.
连老鼠也没死过一只。


They had made their way on to the little knoll where the half-finished windmill stood, and with one accord they all lay down as though huddling together for warmth — Clover, Muriel, Benjamin, the cows, the sheep, and a whole flock of geese and hens — everyone, indeed, except the cat, who had suddenly disappeared just before Napoleon ordered the animals to assemble.
动物们来到小山丘上，盖到一半的风车还矗立在这里，大家不约而同地趴下来，幸运草、穆里儿、班杰明、牛、羊还有一大群鹅和鸡靠在一起取暖。实际上，所有动物都聚在这里，除了猫以外，她在拿破仑命令大家集合之前就突然消失了。


For some time nobody spoke.
动物们沉默了好一段时间。


Only Boxer remained on his feet.
只有拳击手依旧站着。


He fidgeted to and fro, swishing his long black tail against his sides and occasionally uttering a little whinny of surprise.
他烦躁地来回踱步，沙沙地甩动又长又黑的尾巴，时而发出细微的惊叫。


Finally he said: “I do not understand it.
最后，他说：“我不理解。


I would not have believed that such things could happen on our farm.
我不相信这种事情会发生在我们农庄里。


It must be due to some fault in ourselves.
一定是我们哪里做错了。


The solution, as I see it, is to work harder.
在我看来，只有更努力工作才是解决之道。


From now onwards I shall get up a full hour earlier in the mornings.”
从现在起，我每天早上都要整整早起一个小时。”


And he moved off at his lumbering trot and made for the quarry.
接着拳击手步伐笨重地往矿场跑。


Having got there, he collected two successive loads of stone and dragged them down to the windmill before retiring for the night.
到了那里就不停工作，一连拉了两车石头到风车工地，直到晚上才休息。


The animals huddled about Clover, not speaking.
其他动物靠在幸运草身旁，不发一语。


The knoll where they were lying gave them a wide prospect across the countryside.
他们所在的小山丘视野辽阔。


Most of Animal Farm was within their view — the long pasture stretching down to the main road, the hayfield, the spinney, the drinking pool, the ploughed fields where the young wheat was thick and green, and the red roofs of the farm buildings with the smoke curling from the chimneys.
整座动物农庄几乎尽收眼底，狭长的牧场一直延伸到大马路、干草地、杂树丛、饮水池。远远的那头，耕地里长着茁壮而青嫩的麦苗，农庄仓舍的红色屋顶上有袅袅白烟从烟囱冒出来。


It was a clear spring evening.
这是个清朗的春季傍晚。


The grass and the bursting hedges were gilded by the level rays of the sun.
青草和茂盛的树篱在夕阳余晖下闪闪发光。


Never had the farm — and with a kind of surprise they remembered that it was their own farm, every inch of it their own property — appeared to the animals so desirable a place.
他们从来不曾像现在这般想要拥有这块地方，而且还很惊讶地想到，这本来就是他们的农庄，这里的每一寸土地都归他们所有。


As Clover looked down the hillside her eyes filled with tears.
幸运草往山坡下看，眼中盈满泪水。


If she could have spoken her thoughts, it would have been to say that this was not what they had aimed at when they had set themselves years ago to work for the overthrow of the human race.
如果她能够将心情诉诸于言语，大概就是，这和几年前推翻人类时的初衷大相迳庭。


These scenes of terror and slaughter were not what they had looked forward to on that night when old Major first stirred them to rebellion.
在老少校鼓动大家抗争的那晚，恐惧和残杀绝不在他们的期待之内。


If she herself had had any picture of the future, it had been of a society of animals set free from hunger and the whip, all equal, each working according to his capacity, the strong protecting the weak, as she had protected the lost brood of ducklings with her foreleg on the night of Major’s speech.
如果要她勾勒出一幅未来的景象，那会是个美好的社会，动物不再挨饿挨打，大家一律平等且各尽其能，强者会保护弱者，一如老少校演讲那晚她拱起前脚保护没了妈妈的小鸭子。


Instead — she did not know why — they had come to a time when no one dared speak his mind, when fierce, growling dogs roamed everywhere, and when you had to watch your comrades torn to pieces after confessing to shocking crimes.
她搞不懂为什么会走到这一步，凶猛咆哮的大狗四处巡逻，大家不敢畅所欲言，且眼睁睁看着同志们在坦承不当罪行之后被撕咬成碎片。


There was no thought of rebellion or disobedience in her mind.
幸运草心里没有一丝抗争或违逆的念头。


She knew that, even as things were, they were far better off than they had been in the days of Jones, and that before all else it was needful to prevent the return of the human beings.
她知道现在的情形远比琼斯在时好很多，而且避免人类夺回农庄是最重要的事情。


Whatever happened she would remain faithful, work hard, carry out the orders that were given to her, and accept the leadership of Napoleon.
不管发生什么，她都得要保持忠诚、努力工作、完成自己的使命、服从拿破仑的领导。


But still, it was not for this that she and all the other animals had hoped and toiled.
然而，这真的不是她和其他动物日夜企盼、努力打拚所求的结果。


It was not for this that they had built the windmill and faced the bullets of Jones’s gun.
他们建造风车、面对琼斯的子弹为的并不是这个。


Such were her thoughts, though she lacked the words to express them.
这就是幸运草的想法，只是她无法以言语表达。


At last, feeling this to be in some way a substitute for the words she was unable to find, she began to sing ‘Beasts of England’. The other animals sitting round her took it up, and they sang it three times over — very tunefully, but slowly and mournfully, in a way they had never sung it before.
最后，幸运草想到了个方式，多少能表达无法言喻的心情—她唱起《英格兰之兽》。坐在身旁的其他动物也跟着唱起来，他们一连唱了三次，虽然歌声优美，却十分缓慢、哀伤，这种唱法以前从没听过。


They had just finished singing it for the third time when Squealer, attended by two dogs, approached them with the air of having something important to say.
唱完第三遍时，尖叫者在两条狗随同下走过来，一副有要事相告的模样。


He announced that, by a special decree of Comrade Napoleon, ‘Beasts of England’ had been abolished.
他宣布，依照拿破仑特别命令，《英格兰之兽》已经废止。


From now onwards it was forbidden to sing it.
今后不准再唱。


The animals were taken aback.
动物们大吃一惊。


“Why?” cried Muriel.
“为什么？”穆里儿嚷嚷道。


“It’s no longer needed, comrade,” said Squealer stiffly. “‘Beasts of England’ was the song of the Rebellion.
“同志，因为没必要唱这首歌了，”尖叫者语气强硬地说：“《英格兰之兽》代表抗争。




But the Rebellion is now completed.
可现在抗争已经成功了。


The execution of the traitors this afternoon was the final act.
今天下午处决叛徒是最后的行动。


The enemy both external and internal has been defeated.
如今，内神外鬼皆已铲除。


In ‘Beasts of England’ we expressed our longing for a better society in days to come.
我们唱《英格兰之兽》是期待将来有个美好社会。


But that society has now been established.
现在，我们已经建立起这样的社会。


Clearly this song has no longer any purpose.”
这首歌显然没有再唱的必要了。”


Frightened though they were, some of the animals might possibly have protested, but at this moment the sheep set up their usual bleating of “Four legs good, two legs bad,” which went on for several minutes and put an end to the discussion.
大家都很害怕，有些动物或许有意表示反对，可是羊群又在大声咩叫“四足善，双足恶”，一叫叫了好几分钟，最后讨论草草结束。


So ‘Beasts of England’ was heard no more.
就这样，农庄内再也听不到《英格兰之兽》。


In its place Minimus, the poet, had composed another song which began:
而作诗大师小指则写了另一首歌代替，这首歌开头是这样唱的：


Animal Farm, Animal Farm,
动物农庄，动物农庄，


Never through me shalt thou come to harm!
吾等绝不将汝伤！


and this was sung every Sunday morning after the hoisting of the flag.
每个星期天升完旗后，全体就会合唱这首新歌。


But somehow neither the words nor the tune ever seemed to the animals to come up to ‘Beasts of England’.
但在动物心里，新歌的歌词和旋律都比不上《英格兰之兽》。


