Chapter 5
第五章


As winter drew on, Mollie became more and more troublesome.
冬天脚步愈来愈近，莫莉也愈来愈让人伤脑筋。


She was late for work every morning and excused herself by saying that she had overslept, and she complained of mysterious pains, although her appetite was excellent.
她每天早上工作都会迟到，老是拿睡过头当借口，常常抱怨身体没来由地疼痛，胃口却出奇地好。


On every kind of pretext she would run away from work and go to the drinking pool, where she would stand foolishly gazing at her own reflection in the water.
莫莉会以各种推托之词逃避工作，跑到水池边傻傻地凝视自己的倒影。


But there were also rumours of something more serious.
但是，听说还有更严重的事情。


One day, as Mollie strolled blithely into the yard, flirting her long tail and chewing at a stalk of hay, Clover took her aside.
有一天，莫莉快活地溜达进院子里，边走边摇着长长的尾巴，嘴里还嚼着根干草，这时幸运草把她拉到一旁说话。


“Mollie,” she said, “I have something very serious to say to you. This morning I saw you looking over the hedge that divides Animal Farm from Foxwood. One of Mr. Pilkington’s men was standing on the other side of the hedge. And — I was a long way away, but I am almost certain I saw this — he was talking to you and you were allowing him to stroke your nose. What does that mean, Mollie?”
“莫莉，”她说：“我要跟你谈件很重要的事情。今天早上，我看到你探头望动物农庄和狐林农庄之间的篱笆。皮金顿的手下就站在篱笆另一边，虽然我离你们有一大段距离，但是我的确见到他对你讲话，你还让他摸你的鼻子。莫莉，这是怎么回事？”


“He didn’t! I wasn’t! It isn’t true!” cried Mollie, beginning to prance about and paw the ground.
“他才没那么做！我也没让他那样！那不是真的！”莫莉大声叫道，接着来回踱步还伸出前蹄刨着地。


“Mollie! Look me in the face. Do you give me your word of honour that that man was not stroking your nose?”
“莫莉，看着我！你愿意用名誉保证，那个人没有摸你鼻子吗？”


“It isn’t true!” repeated Mollie, but she could not look Clover in the face, and the next moment she took to her heels and galloped away into the field.
“那不是真的！”莫莉如此重复道，却不敢直视幸运草，然后拔腿就往田地里跑。


A thought struck Clover.
幸运草脑中闪过一个念头。


Without saying anything to the others, she went to Mollie’s stall and turned over the straw with her hoof.
她并未向其他动物提起这件事，迳自前往莫莉的厩棚，以蹄子挑开稻草。


Hidden under the straw was a little pile of lump sugar and several bunches of ribbon of different colours.
结果在底下找到一些糖块和好几条不同颜色的缎带。


Three days later Mollie disappeared.
三天后，莫莉不见了。


For some weeks nothing was known of her whereabouts, then the pigeons reported that they had seen her on the other side of Willingdon.
有好几个星期下落不明。之后才从鸽子的报告中得知她身处威灵顿另一边，在一家酒馆前帮人拉车。


She was between the shafts of a smart dogcart painted red and black, which was standing outside a public-house.
她拉的车外形精巧，颜色以红、黑为主。


A fat red-faced man in check breeches and gaiters, who looked like a publican, was stroking her nose and feeding her with sugar.
有个男人脸红体胖，身穿方格子马裤及绑腿，看起来像是酒馆老板，他摸着莫莉的鼻子并喂她糖吃。


Her coat was newly clipped and she wore a scarlet ribbon round her forelock. She appeared to be enjoying herself, so the pigeons said.
鸽子还说，莫莉神色自得地穿着全新剪裁的衣服，额毛上系着一条红缎带。


None of the animals ever mentioned Mollie again.
从此，动物们绝口不提莫莉。


In January there came bitterly hard weather.
到了一月，天气十分恶劣。


The earth was like iron, and nothing could be done in the fields.
大地冻得像铁一样硬，田里没活可干。


Many meetings were held in the big barn, and the pigs occupied themselves with planning out the work of the coming season.
因此大谷仓里举行了多次聚会，猪们全神规划下一季的工作。


It had come to be accepted that the pigs, who were manifestly cleverer than the other animals, should decide all questions of farm policy, though their decisions had to be ratified by a majority vote.
所有动物都接受让明显比其他动物聪明的猪决定农务方针，不过，他们下的决定依旧得通过多数决。


This arrangement would have worked well enough if it had not been for the disputes between Snowball and Napoleon.
这样的模式本来很不错，但雪球和拿破仑却造成问题。


These two disagreed at every point where disagreement was possible.
他们彼此意见不合，一见着机会就表态反对。


If one of them suggested sowing a bigger acreage with barley, the other was certain to demand a bigger acreage of oats, and if one of them said that such and such a field was just right for cabbages, the other would declare that it was useless for anything except roots.
如果其中一方建议多种一亩大麦，另一方一定会要求多种燕麦；如果其中一个说某块田地适合种包心菜，另一个就非要说根茎类作物才是唯一选择。


Each had his own following, and there were some violent debates.
他们各有支持者，双方发生过几次激烈辩论。


At the Meetings Snowball often won over the majority by his brilliant speeches, but Napoleon was better at canvassing support for himself in between times.
在聚会中，雪球常靠出色演说取得多数动物认同，拿破仑则擅长于休息时拉票。


He was especially successful with the sheep.
他这招对羊群特别有效。

Of late the sheep had taken to bleating “Four legs good, two legs bad” both in and out of season, and they often interrupted the Meeting with this.
近来，羊群迷上咩叫“四足善，双足恶”，他们嘴里无时不在嘟囔这句话，常因此害聚会中断。


It was noticed that they were especially liable to break into “Four legs good, two legs bad” at crucial moments in Snowball’s speeches.
大家还注意到，他们最常在雪球的演讲进入高潮时突然大喊“四足善，双足恶”。


Snowball had made a close study of some back numbers of the ‘Farmer and Stockbreeder’ which he had found in the farmhouse, and was full of plans for innovations and improvements.
雪球在农舍找到几本过期的《农人与畜牧者》杂志，仔细研读后，胸中满是革新与改进计划。


He talked learnedly about field drains, silage, and basic slag, and had worked out a complicated scheme for all the animals to drop their dung directly in the fields, at a different spot every day, to save the labour of cartage.
他谈起农地排水、饲料保鲜及碱性炉渣等头头是道，还研拟出一套复杂的制度，要动物们每天直接在田里不同地点排泄，以精简运送所需劳力。


Napoleon produced no schemes of his own, but said quietly that Snowball’s would come to nothing, and seemed to be biding his time.
拿破仑没规划过任何方案，总平静地说雪球的方案终将失败，而且看起来就是在等这一刻到来。


But of all their controversies, none was so bitter as the one that took place over the windmill.
这两只猪争执良多，最严重的一次当属风车建造计划。


In the long pasture, not far from the farm buildings, there was a small knoll which was the highest point on the farm.
仓舍不远处有块狭长的牧场，那里有座小山丘，是农庄内的最高点。


After surveying the ground, Snowball declared that this was just the place for a windmill, which could be made to operate a dynamo and supply the farm with electrical power.
经过一番地形考察，雪球宣布要在这里建造风车，以此运作发电机，为农庄提供电力。


This would light the stalls and warm them in winter, and would also run a circular saw, a chaff-cutter, a mangel-slicer, and an electric milking machine.
一来用作厩棚照明，二来以备冬天时取暖，还能发动圆锯、铡草机、甜菜切片机与电动挤奶机。


The animals had never heard of anything of this kind before (for the farm was an old-fashioned one and had only the most primitive machinery), and they listened in astonishment while Snowball conjured up pictures of fantastic machines which would do their work for them while they grazed at their ease in the fields or improved their minds with reading and conversation.
动物们以前从没听过这些东西（因为这是座旧式农庄，只有较为简单的机器），大家目瞪口呆地听着雪球讲述这些神奇的机器将如何提供协助，让他们能轻松地在田里吃草，或者透过阅读、聊天提升心智。


Within a few weeks Snowball’s plans for the windmill were fully worked out.
没几个星期，雪球便将风车建造图完全设计好。



The mechanical details came mostly from three books which had belonged to Mr. Jones— ‘One Thousand Useful Things to Do About the House’, ‘Every Man His Own Bricklayer’, and ‘Electricity for Beginners’. 
细部构造主要参考琼斯先生的三本书—《一千种盖房子的有用技巧》、《人人都能当砖瓦工》及《电力学入门》。

Snowball used as his study a shed which had once been used for incubators and had a smooth wooden floor, suitable for drawing on. 
他把以前作为孵蛋室的棚子当书房，棚内平滑的木质地板很适合绘图。

He was closeted there for hours at a time. 
雪球在里面往往一待好几个小时。


With his books held open by a stone, and with a piece of chalk gripped between the knuckles of his trotter, he would move rapidly to and fro, drawing in line after line and uttering little whimpers of excitement. 
他拿石头压着翻开的书，前蹄夹着一根粉笔，在里面来回快速移动，随着建造图一横一竖地被勾勒出来，时而发出细微的惊喜叹叫。

Gradually the plans grew into a complicated mass of cranks and cog-wheels, covering more than half the floor, which the other animals found completely unintelligible but very impressive. 
建造图慢慢出现许多复杂的曲轴和齿轮，画满了半片地板，其他动物虽然完全看不懂，但仍感到钦佩。

All of them came to look at Snowball’s drawings at least once a day. 
动物们一天至少会来观看雪球作图一次。

Even the hens and ducks came, and were at pains not to tread on the chalk marks. 
就连母鸡和鸭子都来，他们很小心地不去踩到粉笔痕迹。

Only Napoleon held aloof. He had declared himself against the windmill from the start. 
只有拿破仑对此漠不关心，他从一开始就表明自己对于风车建造计划的反对立场。

One day, however, he arrived unexpectedly to examine the plans. 
然而，有一天，他却出乎意料地现身查看建造图。

He walked heavily round the shed, looked closely at every detail of the plans and snuffed at them once or twice, then stood for a little while contemplating them out of the corner of his eye; 
拿破仑脚步沉重地在棚内走动，端详每处细节，嗅了嗅建造图一两次，还站起来一会儿，斜眼盯着图看。

then suddenly he lifted his leg, urinated over the plans, and walked out without uttering a word.
突然间，他擡起后腿，对图撒了一泡尿，然后一语不发地离开。


The whole farm was deeply divided on the subject of the windmill.
农庄动物在风车计划上歧见甚深。


Snowball did not deny that to build it would be a difficult business.
雪球不否认建造风车是棘手工程。


Stone would have to be carried and built up into walls, then the sails would have to be made and after that there would be need for dynamos and cables. (How these were to be procured, Snowball did not say.) But he maintained that it could all be done in a year.
大家要搬运石头来盖墙，还得制作风车翼，之后更需要发电机和缆线（雪球并未说明这些东西要从何取得）。


And thereafter, he declared, so much labour would be saved that the animals would only need to work three days a week.
但他强调这些事情可在一年内全部完成，并表示竣工之后将能省下许多劳力，大家每周只需工作三天。


Napoleon, on the other hand, argued that the great need of the moment was to increase food production, and that if they wasted time on the windmill they would all starve to death.
持反对意见的拿破仑则认为，当下最需要做的是增加食物产量，如果浪费时间在建造风车上，大家最后都会饿死。


The animals formed themselves into two factions under the slogan, “Vote for Snowball and the three-day week” and “Vote for Napoleon and the full manger.”
动物们分成两派，各自鼓吹“票投雪球，周休四日”以及“票给拿破仑，食物永丰足”。


Benjamin was the only animal who did not side with either faction.
班杰明是唯一没有选边站的动物。


He refused to believe either that food would become more plentiful or that the windmill would save work.
他既不相信食物会丰足也不认为风车能节省劳力。


Windmill or no windmill, he said, life would go on as it had always gone on — that is, badly.
他说，不管有没有风车，生活还是一如往常，也就是同样糟糕。


Apart from the disputes over the windmill, there was the question of the defence of the farm.
除了风车所带来的争端，农庄的防御工事也是项议题。


It was fully realised that though the human beings had been defeated in the Battle of the Cowshed they might make another and more determined attempt to recapture the farm and reinstate Mr. Jones.
虽然人类在牛棚之战吃败仗，动物们都很清楚他们会卷土重来，甚至将展现更强烈的决心要夺回农庄、让琼斯先生再度掌权。


They had all the more reason for doing so because the news of their defeat had spread across the countryside and made the animals on the neighbouring farms more restive than ever.
人类这次败绩传遍英格兰各地，邻近农庄的动物加倍难以驾驭，因此更有理由要讨回颜面。


As usual, Snowball and Napoleon were in disagreement.
不过，雪球与拿破仑依旧意见相左。


According to Napoleon, what the animals must do was to procure firearms and train themselves in the use of them.
拿破仑的见解是，动物们现在要做的是设法取得枪枝并学会用法。


According to Snowball, they must send out more and more pigeons and stir up rebellion among the animals on the other farms.
但雪球认为他们必须派出更多鸽子，煽动其他农庄的动物起而抗争。


The one argued that if they could not defend themselves they were bound to be conquered, the other argued that if rebellions happened everywhere they would have no need to defend themselves.
拿破仑辩说，如果没有自卫能力，那么终将被打败。雪球则强调，如果抗争四起，自我防卫便不再需要。


The animals listened first to Napoleon, then to Snowball, and could not make up their minds which was right; indeed, they always found themselves in agreement with the one who was speaking at the moment.
动物们听完拿破仑的意见接着又听雪球的观点，无法决定谁说的对。事实上，他们发现，谁开口说话他们就买谁的帐。


At last the day came when Snowball’s plans were completed.
这一天终于到来，雪球完成了建造图。


At the Meeting on the following Sunday the question of whether or not to begin work on the windmill was to be put to the vote.
接下来的周日聚会将表决是否要造风车。


When the animals had assembled in the big barn, Snowball stood up and, though occasionally interrupted by bleating from the sheep, set forth his reasons for advocating the building of the windmill.
当所有动物都到大谷仓集合后，雪球站起身，尽管偶尔受到绵羊咩叫声干扰，仍向大家阐述造风车的理由。


Then Napoleon stood up to reply.
之后，拿破仑起而回应。


He said very quietly that the windmill was nonsense and that he advised nobody to vote for it, and promptly sat down again; he had spoken for barely thirty seconds, and seemed almost indifferent as to the effect he produced.
他非常平静地说，造风车十分无意义，要大家不要投它，说完旋即坐下。他开口仅三十秒，有说跟没说差不多。


At this Snowball sprang to his feet, and shouting down the sheep, who had begun bleating again, broke into a passionate appeal in favour of the windmill.
此时，雪球一跃而起，对底下再度发出咩叫声的羊群大喊，要他们安静，并激昂地呼吁大家支持造风车。


Until now the animals had been about equally divided in their sympathies, but in a moment Snowball’s eloquence had carried them away.
在此之前，动物们并未明显赞同哪一方，但能言善道的雪球打动他们的心。


In glowing sentences he painted a picture of Animal Farm as it might be when sordid labour was lifted from the animals’ backs.
他口若悬河地勾勒出动物农庄新未来，届时动物们不再艰苦辛劳。


His imagination had now run far beyond chaff-cutters and turnip-slicers.
他的梦想蓝图不只局限在铡草机和芜菁切片机。


Electricity, he said, could operate threshing machines, ploughs, harrows, rollers, and reapers and binders, besides supplying every stall with its own electric light, hot and cold water, and an electric heater.
他表示电力将带动打谷机、耕耘机、碎土机、滚筒式碾米机、收割机还有捆把机。此外，每座厩棚也将有独立电灯、冷热水以及暖气机。


By the time he had finished speaking, there was no doubt as to which way the vote would go.
雪球一闭口，便不难想见票会投给谁了。


But just at this moment Napoleon stood up and, casting a peculiar sidelong look at Snowball, uttered a high-pitched whimper of a kind no one had ever heard him utter before.
就在这个时候，拿破仑站了起来，以一种奇特的眼神睨视雪球，发出一声尖叫，那种叫法其他动物从未听过。


At this there was a terrible baying sound outside, and nine enormous dogs wearing brass-studded collars came bounding into the barn.
谷仓外传来恐怖的吠叫，九头配戴黄铜项圈的大狗跳进谷仓，笔直冲向雪球。


They dashed straight for Snowball, who only sprang from his place just in time to escape their snapping jaws.
雪球及时跳离座位，躲过大狗利齿。


In a moment he was out of the door and they were after him.
接着逃出门外，狗群则在后头追赶。


Too amazed and frightened to speak, all the animals crowded through the door to watch the chase.
所有动物惊怕得说不出话来，他们蜂拥而出，观看这场追逐行动。


Snowball was racing across the long pasture that led to the road.
雪球快速穿越狭长牧场，往大马路上逃。


He was running as only a pig can run, but the dogs were close on his heels.
雪球使尽吃奶的力气往前跑，而狗已经快追上他了。

Suddenly he slipped and it seemed certain that they had him.
突然间，雪球滑了一跤，原本是会被狗抓住的。


Then he was up again, running faster than ever, then the dogs were gaining on him again.
但是他再度爬起来，以生平最快的速度狂奔，接着狗又逐渐缩短距离。


One of them all but closed his jaws on Snowball’s tail, but Snowball whisked it free just in time.
其中有只狗几乎快咬到他的尾巴了，雪球及时甩开，加速冲刺。


Then he put on an extra spurt and, with a few inches to spare, slipped through a hole in the hedge and was seen no more.
就在只差一小段距离便可逃出狗掌时，雪球却摔进篱笆中的洞里，失去了踪影。


Silent and terrified, the animals crept back into the barn.
动物们吓得张口结舌、魂不附体，偷偷溜回谷仓。


In a moment the dogs came bounding back.
没多久，九头狗再度跳进谷仓。


At first no one had been able to imagine where these creatures came from, but the problem was soon solved: they were the puppies whom Napoleon had taken away from their mothers and reared privately.
一开始，大家都猜不到这些狗打哪来的，但问题马上有了答案。他们是拿破仑当初从狗妈妈身边带走、私下调教的小狗。


Though not yet full-grown, they were huge dogs, and as fierce-looking as wolves.
虽然还没完全长成成犬，身形已然十分硕大，外表凶狠如狼。


They kept close to Napoleon. It was noticed that they wagged their tails to him in the same way as the other dogs had been used to do to Mr. Jones.
大家注意到，这些狗站在拿破仑身边摇着尾巴，和其他狗对待琼斯先生的方式如出一辙。


Napoleon, with the dogs following him, now mounted on to the raised portion of the floor where Major had previously stood to deliver his speech.
拿破仑在狗群簇拥下，走上老少校当初发表演说的高台。


He announced that from now on the Sunday-morning Meetings would come to an end.
他宣布从此取消周日朝会。


They were unnecessary, he said, and wasted time.
因为那没必要且浪费时间。

In future all questions relating to the working of the farm would be settled by a special committee of pigs, presided over by himself.
今后，所有农庄事务相关课题都将由猪群所组成的专责委员会处理，由他担任委员会主席。


These would meet in private and afterwards communicate their decisions to the others.
猪委员们私下开会，事后再将决议公告周知。


The animals would still assemble on Sunday mornings to salute the flag, sing ‘Beasts of England’, and receive their orders for the week; but there would be no more debates.
不过，动物们周日早晨仍要举行升旗典礼，唱《英格兰之兽》，接受未来一周之工作分派，但不再进行任何辩论。


In spite of the shock that Snowball’s expulsion had given them, the animals were dismayed by this announcement.
雪球遭到驱离令动物们大惊失色，这项公告更教他们沮丧不已。


Several of them would have protested if they could have found the right arguments.
如果找得到适当的论点，很多动物都想抗议。


Even Boxer was vaguely troubled.
就连拳击手都觉得有点不快。


He set his ears back, shook his forelock several times, and tried hard to marshal his thoughts; but in the end he could not think of anything to say.
他双耳紧贴头部，数度耸动额毛，很认真地想厘清思路，但终究无法发表任何意见。


Some of the pigs themselves, however, were more articulate.
有些猪比较善于表达。


Four young porkers in the front row uttered shrill squeals of disapproval, and all four of them sprang to their feet and began speaking at once.
四头坐在前排的年轻肉猪就发出刺耳的尖叫表达不满，甚至站起来准备开口说话。


But suddenly the dogs sitting round Napoleon let out deep, menacing growls, and the pigs fell silent and sat down again.
但拿破仑身旁的狗立刻发出低吼声，迫使这些猪闭口坐下。


Then the sheep broke out into a tremendous bleating of “Four legs good, two legs bad!” which went on for nearly a quarter of an hour and put an end to any chance of discussion.
接着，羊群大声咩叫“四足善，双足恶”，喊声持续近十五分钟，终结所有讨论的机会。


Afterwards Squealer was sent round the farm to explain the new arrangement to the others.
会后，尖叫者被派到农庄各处，针对此一新的安排向其他动物做解释。


“Comrades,” he said, “I trust that every animal here appreciates the sacrifice that Comrade Napoleon has made in taking this extra labour upon himself.
“同志们，”他说：“拿破仑同志将这份额外的差事往身上揽，我相信在场所有动物都很感谢他的牺牲。


Do not imagine, comrades, that leadership is a pleasure!
同志们，不要以为当领导是件乐事！


On the contrary, it is a deep and heavy responsibility.
正好相反，那是沉重的责任。


No one believes more firmly than Comrade Napoleon that all animals are equal.
没有动物能像拿破仑同志这般坚信所有动物一律平等。


He would be only too happy to let you make your decisions for yourselves.
你们想自己作主，他高兴都来不及了。


But sometimes you might make the wrong decisions, comrades, and then where should we be?
但你们有时可能会下错误的决定，到时我们该怎么办？


Suppose you had decided to follow Snowball, with his moonshine of windmills — Snowball, who, as we now know, was no better than a criminal?”
现在我们知道雪球跟罪犯一样坏，假设你们当初支持他还有那番风车蠢话，结果会怎样呢？”


“He fought bravely at the Battle of the Cowshed,” said somebody.
有动物说：“他在牛棚之战中英勇战斗。”


“Bravery is not enough,” said Squealer. “Loyalty and obedience are more important.
“英勇是不够的，”尖叫者回道：“忠诚与服从更重要。


And as to the Battle of the Cowshed, I believe the time will come when we shall find that Snowball’s part in it was much exaggerated.
至于牛棚之战，一段时日之后，我相信大家就会发现雪球的表现被夸大了。


Discipline, comrades, iron discipline!
纪律，同志们，铁的纪律！


That is the watchword for today.
这就是今天的口号。


One false step, and our enemies would be upon us.
一步走错，敌人就会击垮我们。


Surely, comrades, you do not want Jones back?”
同志们，你们不想让琼斯回来，对吧？”

Once again this argument was unanswerable.
这项论点再次让动物们哑口无言。


Certainly the animals did not want Jones back; if the holding of debates on Sunday mornings was liable to bring him back, then the debates must stop.
他们的确不希望琼斯回来。如果周日朝会的辩论可能造成他重返农庄，那就该立即停止。

Boxer, who had now had time to think things over, voiced the general feeling by saying: “If Comrade Napoleon says it, it must be right.”
拳击手现在有时间好好思考，于是将自己的看法简单说出来：“如果拿破仑同志这么讲，那就一定是对的。”


And from then on he adopted the maxim, “Napoleon is always right,” in addition to his private motto of “I will work harder.”
从那时起，拳击手除了座右铭“我要更努力”外，又将“拿破仑永远是对的”当作格言谨记在心。


By this time the weather had broken and the spring ploughing had begun.
此时，气候回暖，春耕也已展开。


The shed where Snowball had drawn his plans of the windmill had been shut up and it was assumed that the plans had been rubbed off the floor.
雪球绘制风车建造图的厩棚如今大门深锁，大家都认为地板上的建造图已经擦掉了。


Every Sunday morning at ten o’clock the animals assembled in the big barn to receive their orders for the week.
每周日早上十点钟，动物们都到大谷仓集合，接受新一周的工作指派。


The skull of old Major, now clean of flesh, had been disinterred from the orchard and set up on a stump at the foot of the flagstaff, beside the gun.
老少校的头如今仅剩白骨，动物们将它从果园里挖出来，放置在旗杆底下的台子上，就在枪旁边。


After the hoisting of the flag, the animals were required to file past the skull in a reverent manner before entering the barn.
每次升完旗，动物们都得排成一列，恭敬地经过头骨，再进入谷仓。


Nowadays they did not sit all together as they had done in the past.
现在，所有动物不像以前那样全部坐在一起了。


Napoleon, with Squealer and another pig named Minimus, who had a remarkable gift for composing songs and poems, sat on the front of the raised platform, with the nine young dogs forming a semicircle round them, and the other pigs sitting behind.
拿破仑、尖叫者以及一头善于编歌写诗、名叫小指的猪坐在高起平台的正前方，九条年轻的狗则以他们为中心围成一个半圆。


The rest of the animals sat facing them in the main body of the barn.
剩下的猪只坐在后头，其余动物则坐在谷仓中央空地上。


Napoleon read out the orders for the week in a gruff soldierly style, and after a single singing of ‘Beasts of England’, all the animals dispersed.
在聚会中，拿破仑以军人般一板一眼的语气宣读下周工作指令，接着大家合唱一遍《英格兰之兽》便告散会。


On the third Sunday after Snowball’s expulsion, the animals were somewhat surprised to hear Napoleon announce that the windmill was to be built after all.
雪球遭到驱逐后的第三个周日，拿破仑宣布风车还是要建造，这让动物们有点意外。


He did not give any reason for having changed his mind, but merely warned the animals that this extra task would mean very hard work, it might even be necessary to reduce their rations.
拿破仑并未解释自己为何改变心意，只提醒大家这份额外的任务将会非常艰辛，必要时可能还得减少食物配给。


The plans, however, had all been prepared, down to the last detail.
而建造计划已经完全规划好，没漏掉任何细节。


A special committee of pigs had been at work upon them for the past three weeks.
猪群所组成的专责委员会过去三周就是在处理这件事情。

The building of the windmill, with various other improvements, was expected to take two years.
根据估计，建造风车加上其他各种改善工程总共得花两年。


That evening Squealer explained privately to the other animals that Napoleon had never in reality been opposed to the windmill.
当晚，尖叫者私下向其他动物解释，拿破仑实际上从未反对建造风车，相反地，这主意一开始是他提的。


On the contrary, it was he who had advocated it in the beginning, and the plan which Snowball had drawn on the floor of the incubator shed had actually been stolen from among Napoleon’s papers.
此外，雪球画在孵蛋室地板上的建造图其实是从拿破仑的文件中偷来的。


The windmill was, in fact, Napoleon’s own creation.
事实上，风车是拿破仑的创作。


Why, then, asked somebody, had he spoken so strongly against it?
有动物问道，为什么他当时要强词反对？


Here Squealer looked very sly. That, he said, was Comrade Napoleon’s cunning.
此时尖叫者一脸狡猾地回说，这就是拿破仑同志精明之处。





He had SEEMED to oppose the windmill, simply as a manoeuvre to get rid of Snowball, who was a dangerous character and a bad influence.
他看似反对风车，其实是赶走雪球的手段。雪球是个危险角色，只会带来不良影响。


Now that Snowball was out of the way, the plan could go forward without his interference.
现在，雪球走了，计划就能不受干扰顺利进行。


This, said Squealer, was something called tactics.
尖叫者表示，这就是所谓的策略。


He repeated a number of times, “Tactics, comrades, tactics!” skipping round and whisking his tail with a merry laugh.
“策略，同志们，策略！”他带着愉悦的笑声一连重复好几次，边讲边跳来蹦去、甩动尾巴。


The animals were not certain what the word meant, but Squealer spoke so persuasively, and the three dogs who happened to be with him growled so threateningly, that they accepted his explanation without further questions.
动物们不是很懂这个字眼，但尖叫者语气太有说服力，再加上他身旁刚好有三条狗发出威胁性的低吼，所以大家都不再追问，接受了他的说法。


